Source: http://npshistory.com/newsletters/inside-earth/v9n1.pdf
Words: 5590

================================================================================

Geologic Resources Division Cave and Karst Programs National Park Service U.S. Department of the Interior Inside Earth Volume 9 Number 1 Summer 2006 Edited by Rodney D. Horrocks, Wind Cave National Park A Newsletter of the Cave & Karst Programs of the National Park Service Caption: Frostwork on top of popcorn along the CM survey in the Historic Section of Wind Cave. Photo by Ken Geu. Table of Contents: Featured Article: New Cave Discovered in Sequoia National Park, Joel Despain & Ben Tobin 2 A rticles: Using SpeleoWorks and the Wind Cave Inventory Database to Locate Paleo Sites in Wind Cave, Rod Horrocks 3 Wind Cave Survey Becomes Fourth Longest Cave in the World, Rod Horrocks 4 Park Updates (Listed alphabetically): Buffalo National River, Chuck Bitting 5 Carlsbad Caverns National Park, Dale Pate 5 Grand Canyon-Parashant National Monument, Kyle Voyles 6 Jewel Cave National Monument; Rene Ohms & Mike Wiles 6 Oregon Cave National Monument, John Roth 8 Sequoia Kings Canyon National Park, Joel Despain 9 Wind Cave National Park, Rod Horrocks 2 10 Park Cave Specialist, Joel Despain, said, “we are very Feature Article: excited about the discovery of this beautiful new cave. It will add to our knowledge of the park’s wildlife and New Cave Discovered in Sequoia features. It is a fine new addition to the many National Park wonderful caves in the two parks.” Joel also said that, “Knowing that the cave exists, will allow park officials By Joel Despain, Cave Management Specialist to better manage the surrounding area.” & Ben Tobin, Physical Science Technician On August 19 four park volunteers discovered a In keeping with park policies from the Park’s Cave & significant new cave within Sequoia National Park Karst Management Plan, this new cave is automatically placed in Management Class 4. Such caves are closed that has been named Ursa Minor, after the Little to recreational visits pending evaluation and scientific Dipper constellation. The cave features large study. Park cave management staff will be planning a passages – often more than 50-feet wide – and series of trips with subject matter experts to conduct beautiful cave formations. These include long and this work. Tasks on these trips will include: creating an graceful draperies, some more than 30-feet long, accurate and detailed map of the cave, conducting an ever fragile soda straws up to 6-feet long, many inventory of its features, conducting a biological cave pearls, and large areas of multicolored inventory, photo documenting cave features and dripstone and flowstone. Crystal faces in the formations, and gating the cave entrance to protect flowstone, often called cave velvet, produce a access into the cave. At this point, park staff will be on brilliant sparkle when struck by a caver’s light. all trips into the new cave. Ursa Minor also has a cave lake that may be as much as 100-feet long and 35-feet wide and vertical drops that must be traversed using ropes. The estimated current length of the known cave is 1,000 feet with several very good climbing leads and un-dropped pits remaining. It is clear that several of the cave’s larger passages continue and the actual length of the cave remains unknown at this time. Caption: Cave Pearls in Ursa Minor Cave. Photo by Dave Bunnell. The new cave was found as part of an on-going park- approved project managed by the Cave Research Foundation that allows small excavations with hand tools in a search for new caves and cave passages. The cave was found during the first weekend of the dig project overseen by Mark Scott. The discoverers of Caption: The second room in Ursa Minor Cave contains a Ursa Minor cave spent approximately two hours 100-foot long by 35-foot wide lake, which may be seasonal. excavating the entrance area before it was possible to Photo by Dave Bunnell. enter the cave. The original hole was roughly baseball size and had no airflow. An ancient animal skeleton was found in the cave that resembles a bear, which influenced the naming of the Ursa Minor is the latest of dozens of caves discovered cave. Cave-adapted invertebrates that may be new or in the two parks during the past 20 years. To date, 240 rare species have also been seen in the cave. Thus far, caves have been documented within these parks. These three of the 31 new species recently discovered in the parks are already home to California’s longest cave, park’s caves appear to make their home in this cave. Lilburn Cave (21 miles), a developed cave named 2 Inside Earth Vol. 9 No. 1 Summer 2006 Crystal Cave (2.9 miles), and the spectacularly shallower and where old entrances have opened and decorated Hurricane Crawl Cave (1.9 miles). closed over time. There seems to be a cluster around the Snake Pit Entrance, another near the Natural Entrance, and another near the Elevator (although the bones in that area certainly predate the Elevator and probably have more to do with flooding into a low- lying area). The woodrat skeleton in the Lakes Section is a surprise, as is the site at the end of the Half Mile Hall Section, which may actually be a bat skeleton. As a whole, these nineteen paleo sites primarily represent lost woodrat and bat individuals, except for the Chamber of Lost Souls site, which includes bones from many species washed into the cave through a now plugged former entrance (Martin, 1984). Caption: One of the four discovers standing next to some formations in one of the upper rooms in Ursa Minor Cave. Photo by Dave Bunnell. Using SpeleoWorks and the Wind Cave Inventory Database to Locate Paleontological Sites in Wind Cave By Rodney D. Horrocks, Physical Science Specialist During the April 8, 2006 Wind Cave Weekend, I led a survey trip to a passage called, “No Don’t Stop” in the Historic Section of Wind Cave, when a woodrat skeleton was discovered in a small crawlway (see Caption: A woodrat skeleton discovered near the north edge accompanying map). Located 90 feet from the of Wind Cave during the February Wind Cave Weekend. northeastern edge of the cave, the No Don’t Stop Photo by Ken Geu. passage parallels that edge of the cave. The Point and Inventory person on that particular trip, Ken Geu, To date, we have entered feature inventory data for discovered the partially articulated skeleton in a 18,267 stations into the Wind Cave Inventory bellycrawl off of the main passage. Although the bones Database. We still have a lot of data for an additional were not fossilized, the skeleton has been defleshed 5,000+ stations to enter into this new database. and is probably hundreds of years old. Although, the Undoubtedly, many more paleo sites will be Natural Entrance is only 700-hundred feet away, it discovered as this backlogged inventory data is entered would have been a much longer traverse via into SpeleoWorks and as the on-going survey and traversable cave passages for a lost woodrat. It seems inventory project continues to document additional more likely that the woodrat entered the cave through a paleo sites within Wind Cave. This query of the Wind nearby and now plugged former entrance or through a Cave Inventory Database is just the first of countless nearby blowhole. searches that will become possible with SpeleoWorks once all the data is entered. As this database is After this discovery, we used our new SpeleoWorks interfaced with ESRI’s ArcMap in the future, it will be program to query the Wind Cave Inventory Database possible to conduct complex queries that identify all to determine where bones have been documented in the stations with a set of common features and produce Wind Cave. Our query showed that bones have been maps of those results. We will undoubtedly learn a lot found at nineteen sites in Wind Cave (see about Wind Cave from these queries. accompanying map on the next page). Notice that the nineteen paleo sites are mostly clustered in the This query of the Wind Cave Inventory database was northern section of the cave, where the cave is made possible as a result of the SpeleoWorks computer 3 Inside Earth Vol. 9 No. 1 Summer 2006 program developed in Microsoft Access by Tom a new length of 119.58 miles, the Wind Cave survey McBride in 2005. easily became the fourth-longest cave in the world. Each of the six groups made significant discoveries that day, averaging as a group nearly 600 feet per survey team. The Wind Cave survey is now 13 miles behind the third-longest cave in the world (Optimisticheskaya in the Ukraine). Although the Wind Cave survey project surveys an average of 5 miles each year, the third-longest cave survey is still growing, which means it will be many years before Wind Cave has a chance to move up another slot in the world long cave list. Caption: Nineteen paleontological sites found within Wind Cave that have been documented in the Wind Cave Inventory Database, which was created with SpeleoWorks. Caption: Bonnie Armstrong admiring the formations in the Stalactites Galore area of Wind Cave. This area was Martin, James E. 1984. “Vertebrate Remains From discovered on 2/11/2006, the day the Wind Cave survey Wind Cave, Custer County, South Dakota”. passed Hoelloch Cave of Switzerland to become the fourth Department of Geology and Geological longest cave in the world. Photo by Andy Armstrong. Engineering South Dakota School of Mines and Technology, September 29, 1984. Unpublished report, Physical Science files, Wind Cave National Park. 19 p. Announcement: Wind Cave Survey Becomes the The book, “Cave Conservation and Restoration, 2006 Fourth Longest Cave in the World Edition”, edited by Val Hildreth-Werker an Jim C. Werker has been released and can now be purchased. This 600-page By Rodney D. Horrocks, Physical Science Specialist book contains 87 articles with 25 side bars, written by a total of 46 subject matter experts. Nine National Park Service Before the February Wind Cave Weekend, the Wind employees contributed to this volume. Cave survey was nearly a half mile behind the fourth- longest cave in the world, Hoelloch Cave of Switzerland. Wind Cave had been the fifth-longest cave in the world for the previous 13 months. On February 11, 2006, ten out-of-state and eight in-state cavers, coming from Colorado, South Dakota, & Nebraska, participated in the February Wind Cave Weekend. Dividing up into six teams, they surveyed 0.67 miles or 3,545 feet of new passage, pushing the Wind Cave survey past Hoelloch’s 119.24 miles. With 4 Inside Earth Vol. 9 No. 1 Summer 2006 significant springs along the Black River. A project to Park Updates (Listed alphabetically): detect these discreet channels within the alluvium from several major canyons in the park has been awarded with the hopes that potential drilling sites can be moved away from detected channels. Buffalo National River By Chuck Bitting, Geologist Updated Cave & Karst Management Plan: An updated draft plan that replaces the 1995 Cave & Cave Rescue: Karst Management Plan has been completed and On August 12, a group visiting Fitton Cave became submitted to the Intermountain Region compliance separated in an area of the cave with extensive team for review. It is hoped that the plan and breakdown. Four of the cavers exited, thinking the Environmental Assessment will be finalized by the end other two were in front of them. The remaining two, of the 2006 calendar year. who had each been in the cave at least twice previously, attempted to make their way out. They Lechuguilla Cave: became confused at a key point in the East Passage and Exploration, survey, and inventory continues for 2006 sat down to await rescue. At 23:00 the park was with 10 expeditions being awarded. Expeditions led by notified of the situation and a search and rescue Andy Armstrong, Hazel Barton, Ron Miller & Rich operation was commenced. At 03:00 on 8/13 a hasty Sundquist, and Steve Reames have added 1.6 miles of search team composed of one NPS employee and three survey bringing the total length of Lechuguilla Cave to caver volunteers entered the cave and began heading 118.32 miles (190.4 kilometers). toward the point last seen. The cavers were found at 05:35 in good shape about one mile into the cave. The hasty team and tired cavers exited the cave at 07:00. Another team entered to de-rig the communication wire and remove flagging from the cave at 06:00 and exited at around 09:00. In all, 40 people responded to the search. Buffalo National River is grateful for the assistance of all personnel who mobilized in the middle of the night to assist with the search and rescue effort. Carlsbad Caverns National Park By Dale Pate, Supervisory Physical Scientist Oil & Gas Issues: With the BLM fast-tracking oil and gas leases, the park is once more looking at drilling getting closer and closer to our boundaries. Though no drilling is occurring in the Cave Protection Zone (CPZ) established by the Lechuguilla Cave Protection Act of 1993, leases have recently been let on State of New Mexico land and private land north of Carlsbad Cavern and east of the CPZ. Combined with grandfathered leases within an 8,000 acre mineral withdrawal on BLM land in the area, there is high potential for drilling within 1.5 to 2 miles of Carlsbad Cavern. Caption: A gypsum glacier in Glacier Bay in Lechuguilla Additional leasing of BLM, State, and private lands Cave, Carlsbad Caverns National Park. Photo by Art Palmer. south of the park is also occurring. Though these potential drill sites to the south are no threats to cave Carlsbad Cavern: resources within the park, the park is concerned about A Cave Research Foundation (CRF) project led by discreet water channels that lead from the park to Barbe Barker completed the restoration of Rattlesnake Springs (the park's water source) and other Longfellow's Bathtub in the Big Room. This large pool 5 Inside Earth Vol. 9 No. 1 Summer 2006 at one time had the visitor trail going directly through The project resulted in 12,000+ feet of cave passage it. The park built a bridge to replace the fill that had being surveyed, which produced high quality and been placed in the pool, but unfortunately red clay and accurate digitized cave maps of all caves on the other materials had been accidentally released into the monument. We also discovered four species of pool during the removal process. The CRF took invertebrates and one new Genus of cave cricket. Of considerable effort to clean the pool and it looks really the 15 vials of inverts collected, there are currently 13 great. They have done an excellent job. The CRF is vials of invertebrates waiting to be identified. also close to completing the cleanup of the Rookery in Lower Cave. This project has taken more than 10 Of the 24 caves inventoried, we sampled 15 caves for years, but the tremendous effort put forth by the CRF invertebrates. Shelter caves were not sampled. Of those has produced some amazing results. In addition, the 15 caves, 5 were identified as containing significant bat CRF has worked in numerous locations continuing Hibernaculum/day roost sites. restoration, survey and inventory in Carlsbad Cavern. This is just a baseline study, so there is much more Other groups and individuals also continue to perform work to be done and many more caves to be found. We restoration, survey and inventory work in the cave. are hoping to continue the project on the monument This includes: the Permian Basin Speleological and expand to lands of the AZ strip, where there are Society, Karen Perry, the Lubbock Area Grotto, the over 100 caves that have not been inventoried and Central Oklahoma Grotto, the Pecos Valley Grotto, and many that have not been surveyed. survey teams led by Dan Montoya and Paul Burger. The resurvey of Carlsbad Cavern now stands at 26.03 miles (41.89 kilometers). Grand Canyon-Parashant National Monument By Kyle Voyles, Physical Science Technician In late 2005, we discovered cave dwelling salamanders just outside of the park and conducted a short salamander inventory. During this inventory, we discovered numerous caves with significant biological aspects to them, so it was decided to conduct an inventory of the caves on the Parashant National Monument. Caption: This female cricket is from a new genus of cave In early 2006, we received funding to conduct a crickets found in Resort Cave in Grand Canyon-Parashant National Monument. Photo by Kyle Voyles. baseline ecological inventory of the caves on the Monument. The project was a joint effort between We have discovered the first known sign of bear use in NPS, BLM, USGS and NAU (Northern Arizona a cave on the monument or the AZ strip. The scat was University) and was headed by myself and Jut Wynne identified by Jim Mead of NAU and dated to ~1,100 from the USGS. years old. In the same cave we discovered the first prehistoric human feces, which dated at ~1,200 years The Baseline Ecological Cave Inventory is a large old. scale cave inventory with the primary emphasis on cave dwelling invertebrates. The project consisted of in-depth inventories in the categories of Geology, Jewel Cave National Monument Hydrology, Paleontology, Cultural, Biology and By Rene Ohms, Cave Management Technician Recreation/Human use. All 24 known caves of the & Mike Wiles Cave Management Specialist Parashant National Monument were inventoried, with an additional 2 new caves being found during that A New Way to Kill Algae: time. This summer, the park experimented with a germicidal ultraviolet light (the type used for disinfection in 6 Inside Earth Vol. 9 No. 1 Summer 2006 hospitals) at one light along the Scenic Tour with total of 1.7 miles of additional survey. Two of these moderate algae growth. The idea for this project came were four-day trips, which pushed open leads at the from Lee-Gray Boze, a caver and seasonal biological southeastern edge of the cave, where there is still going science technician. A patch of algae was exposed to the passage and strong airflow. There have also been UV light for up to 24 minutes, after which there was no successful survey trips near the Big Deal (in the immediate visible change. Within one week the algae western section of the cave), the PHI area south of the had clearly diminished, although it did not disappear Target Room, and below Geologist’s Delight along the completely. Hub Loop. In August, a team led by Andy Armstrong investigated a high lead above Seventh Heaven. Larry Shaffer made the initial climb, after lassoing a rock projection 30-feet above (see photo below). Once the others had climbed into the upper passage, the team surveyed 121 feet, leaving two going leads. Caption: Algae before a 24-minute treatment with ultraviolet light. Photo by Rene Ohms. Caption: Algae seven days after a 24-minute treatment by ultraviolet light. Photo by Rene Ohms. Caption: Larry Shaffer climbing a lead above Seventh Heaven in Jewel Cave. Photo by Andy Armstrong. The ultraviolet light appears to have great potential for killing algal growth without the use of harmful In the Media: chemicals such as hypochlorite bleach. Longer In January, Jewel Cave reached 135 miles of surveyed exposure times, or a light with greater wattage, may be length. The cave had also recently passed necessary in order to kill the algae completely. The Optimistychna (the Ukrainian name for park will continue to explore this promising alternative Optimisticheskaya ) to become the second longest cave to traditional bleach treatments. in the world. As a result, articles about Jewel Cave exploration appeared in newspapers and on internet sites across the globe. Video interviews with cavers Recent Discoveries: from January’s four-day trip can be seen at: Since the last issue of Inside Earth, there have been eleven exploration trips into Jewel Cave, yielding a 7 Inside Earth Vol. 9 No. 1 Summer 2006 http://www.blackhillsportal.com/newsarchives/archive already developed such as Bill Elliott’s Missouri one. details.cfm?id=1110 It will allow the inputting of species data from our cluster and from cave, groundwater, and marine The Potential Extent of Jewel Cave: species north of Mexico. Each park unit will be Cave Specialist Mike Wiles has developed a GIS identified and will be able to generate their own state model to determine how far Jewel Cave is likely to or park lists. extend. The model is based on known geology, hydrology, cave survey, and barometric airflow Total # Bats Observed During Weekly Critter Surveys On and Off Tour Season studies. After determining the volume of limestone Begin End Begin End Begin End Tours Tours Tours Tours Tours Tours 40 available for cave development and extrapolating the 35 known “cave density” into that volume, it was determined that Jewel Cave could extend as far as 30 Wind Cave, which lies 18 miles to the southeast. This 25 study has been presented at several conferences, 20 including the National Cave and Karst Management 15 Symposium, South Dakota Hydrology Conference, and National Speleological Society Convention. The 10 model proves to be a valuable tool for management of 5 the resource, and underscores the importance of 0 establishing good working relationships with park neighbors. Date A new lock system will be installed for the cave Oregon Caves National Monument sometime this fall or next spring. Cyberlocks, By John Roth, Natural Resource Specialist manufactured by Videx, are weather-proof and do not require wiring. Keys are programmable, battery- Cave Projects: powered, and contain unique identifiers. The system This season staff attempted to control algae by records use in the locks and keys, and periodic docking spraying with a hydrogen peroxide solution instead of of keys to a keypad will upload key activity data into a bleach. Initially, a 15% solution seemed to have no database. Currently, staff, volunteers, and researchers effect. The concentration was increased to 30%, but are required to sign in on the clipboard behind the with only marginally greater effect. A 50% solution visitor center desk when making any visits into the appears to do the trick. cave without being on a tour. Bat counts from biological surveys conducted weekly Tarps under the stairs and grated walkways were along the paved tour route were compiled and graphed. cleaned out, and the debris was collected into filters Monument staff and volunteers have been conducting and taken out of the cave. these “critter surveys” since 2001, although not consistently, except in 2003-2004. The line graph shows weekly bat census data 2001 through 2004 on and off tour season (gaps in data where line is discontinuous). Work is ongoing on developing an initial integrated microbial/ macroinvertebrate/ Neotoma feces biological monitoring protocols that will likely be further developed by funding from NCKRI. There are now 12 Hobo temperature/humidity sensors located throughout the cave. Pools in the proposed caving route that were impacted A few thousand dollars have been obligated this FY to by bootprints have been restored and flagged off more develop a user-friendly Access database or revise one clearly. 8 staB # 1002/62/21 2002/62/1 2002/62/2 2002/62/3 2002/62/4 2002/62/5 2002/62/6 2002/62/7 2002/62/8 2002/62/9 2002/62/01 2002/62/11 2002/62/21 3002/62/1 3002/62/2 3002/62/3 3002/62/4 3002/62/5 3002/62/6 3002/62/7 3002/62/8 3002/62/9 3002/62/01 3002/62/11 3002/62/21 4002/62/1 4002/62/2 4002/62/3 4002/62/4 4002/62/5 4002/62/6 4002/62/7 4002/62/8 4002/62/9 4002/62/01 4002/62/11 Inside Earth Vol. 9 No. 1 Summer 2006 Schubert (Geologists in the Parks) on Oregon Caves water quality. Sequoia & Kings Canyon National Parks By Joel Despain, Cave Management Specialist The Cave Management Program at Sequoia and Kings Canyon National Parks have had a very busy 2006. The program is playing host to National Geographic photographers and a writer who will spend a total of 6 weeks in the parks photographing and writing about Visitor impact mapping and monitoring will be the the 27 new species of cave invertebrates found during main project focus of resource management staff the cave invertebrate inventory completed early this through the fall. The project concept was initially year. This work will result in a magazine article next based on work done by Hans Bodenhamer and will year. involve taking inventory of the presence and severity of specific impacts along off-trail corridors in the cave More results from the Invertebrate Inventory have that will be used for the proposed caving route, come-in. Three additional new species of millepedes educational after-hours trips for guides, or research. It and one new genus of millipede have been identified will also include mapping specific points to be by taxonomists. This brings the total number of new monitored, photomonitoring, photoinventory, TDS species from the study to 31. readings for trail-side and off-trail cave pools, designing maps to display levels of hazard, fragility, and susceptibility to damage of various cave passages, marking broken speleothems along the main trail with UV fluorescing ink, and possibly also measuring compaction and biodiversity. Impact mapping work this summer included photographing and mapping five bone sites near the caving route and conducting initial impact inventory of the proposed caving route, testing various methods for assessing impacts in cave passages, and progress toward a map design for displaying hazard and fragility levels mapped in 2005. Caption: A new species of millipede from Crystal Cave, Sequoia National Park. Photo by Jean Krejca. One of our Geocorp staff completed a study of the compass direction of broken and re-cemented Park staff have been maintaining a series of data speleothems. There were no preferred orientation loggers in the Redwood Canyon area of the parks this although both failed flowstone and broken speleothems year for the Lilburn Caves fire effects study, which is are narrowly vertically distributed in the cave and examining the water chemistry and sedimentation associated with sediment between flowstone. This effects of forest fires on karst systems. suggests that reflooding may have mimicked some of Joel Despain authored an article recently published in the flowstone-on-sediment failure and broken the International Journal of Wilderness that examines speleothems seen in other caves with earthquake applying wilderness management to park caves. damage. Presentations: Ben Tobin represented the parks at the annual meeting Presentations at the NSS convention included two on and convention of the National Speleological Society DNA work at the Caves by Rick Fowler, one by John in Bellingham, Washington in early August. Roth on historical attitudes towards caves and one on how that affects NPS funding, one by Hester Mallone on volunteering at Oregon Caves, and one by Mary 9 Inside Earth Vol. 9 No. 1 Summer 2006 On August 19th four cavers working under an Presentations: approved research program overseen by the Cave Rod presented two slide shows at this years National Research Foundation excavated an opening on a park Speleological Society Convention, which was held in mountain-side and discovered a new significant cave. Bellingham, Washington. The first of those two The explorers named the cave Ursa Minor (see feature PowerPoint shows, which he presented at the session article in this issue). on Caves and Karst on Federal Lands, included current cave research and cave management projects at Wind Cave National Park. The research projects discussed included the microbial studies by Dr. John Moore, who is from Colorado State University, and the cave environmental studies by Dr. Andreas Pflitsch, who is from Ruhr University in Bochum Germany. The second PowerPoint presentation was an update on the Wind Cave Survey Project for the U.S. Exploration session, where the 79 survey trips were discussed that surveyed 4.73 miles of passage since the last NSS Convention. Six of the more significant discoveries made during this time period were highlighted for the slide show. Projects: Rod recently completed an oblique view cutaway of a portion of the tour routes in Wind Cave. This 3D illustration will be used in a new interpretive sign showing the relationship of the tour routes with the overlying surface. The new sign will be located Caption: A new species of pseudo scorpion found in Walk between the Visitor Center and the Elevator building. Softly Cave, Sequoia National Park. Photo by Jean Krejca. Marc Ohms recently completed a project where he took 35 digital photographs at each of 15 in-cave sites Wind Cave National Park in Wind Cave. These photographs are part of a 360 By Rodney D. Horrocks, Physical Science Specialist degree photo CD sales item that will be sold by the cooperating association and will allow Park visitors to Some of the cave management highlights that have sit at their computer while exploring parts of the cave occurred in the park since the last issue of Inside Earth that would otherwise be impossible for them to see. include: During the May Black Hills Restoration Camp, 11 Awards: volunteers cleaned the entire Garden of Eden Tour In recognition for 16 years of volunteer service at Route trail. In the process, they removed 3,175 pounds Wind Cave National Park, we recently nominated the of sand, silt, dust, lint, and hair from the cave. This is Colorado Grotto for the National Park Service’s, the first time we’ve cleaned this route in the previous George B. Hertzhog Volunteer Group Service Award. seven years and it is the most debris removed during The Midwest Region (which oversees 54 National Park any lint camp during that same time period. Service sites) chose the Colorado Grotto to be their Rod just completed a project to update the “Wind Cave nomination for this national award. Unfortunately, the Inventory Photo Album” by adding 90 photos of Grotto was not selected at the national level for the different types of speleothems, geological, and award. In recognition for being the Midwest Region’s biological features that have been found in Wind Cave selection, the Region presented the Grotto with an (see example of manganese dendrites below). This attractive clear acrylic award. Rod presented this award photo album, which includes nearly 140 photos and to the Colorado Grotto during the February Wind Cave descriptions, will be used by new inventory people to Weekend. Amy Bern, the Wind Cave Weekend familiarize themselves with the types of features found Coordinator, accepted the award in behalf of the in Wind Cave before they go on their first survey and Grotto. inventory trip. 10 Inside Earth Vol. 9 No. 1 Summer 2006 Survey work in Wind Cave continues to uncover additional facts about activities that occurred within the Historic Section of Wind Cave but are not well documented in park records. Recently, while on a survey trip to the UEA area (located next to the Escape Stairs on the Garden of Eden Tour), we found a pencil inscription on the wall that read, “Radiators installed 8- 18-35”. We had already known that the Park had done extensive modifications of a room 50 feet to the east of that inscription sometime in the 1930’s. We could see that they had excavated seventy feet of passage to a depth of 6-10 feet and built a 45-foot long rock retaining wall in a nearby room. After a little research, we now know that the work was done in preparations Caption: Unusual manganese dendrites on the chert ceiling for installing radiators for cooling the power plant. of the Map Room in the Historic Section of Wind Cave. Photo by Andy Armstrong. This plant generated electricity for the elevators. Because of this inscription, we now know when the We hosted Dr. Andreas Pflitsch’s intern, Andre radiators were installed, August 18, 1935, which was a Baumeister, from Ruhr University in Bochum few months after the excavation of the elevator shaft Germany. He spent two months living at the park last and two months before the Otis Elevator Company winter while studying environmental conditions in finished installing the new elevator. The coolant Wind Cave. Andre took measurements using a thermal system was composed of a 2” pipe that ran down the camera, temperature sensors, and a heat bulb elevator shaft and out to a room they called “The anemometer (for Wind speed) during measurement Isolation Room”, where hot water ran through 2,300 walks taken twice daily along the Natural Entrance feet of coiled pipes and was cooled in the 53 degree F. Tour Route. He did measurements at 10 points between cave air before being pumped out of the cave and back the Walk-In Entrance and the elevators, which to the Power House (currently the VIP Center). The included taking 20 thermal photos of the walls, ceiling, only thing remaining today are the extensive and floors of the cave to measure the rock surface excavations, blasting, and rock walls in the Isolation temperature. He was researching the thermal processes Room. Searching the Superintendents Annual Reports, between the moving air and the rocks, especially in the we learned that the pipes were completely removed entrance area. from the cave during a “cavern cleanup job” after power lines from Hot Spring started supplying Cave Survey & Inventory: electricity to the Park in the spring of 1953. Seasonal physical science technician Jason Walz, completed a project to update all 21 of the Wind Cave quadrangles maps with recent surveys (6 miles of new survey). Because eight of these quads have now been divided into three separate layers each, there is now a total of 37 individual map sheets that cover the 21 quads. With this update, 121.02 miles of Wind Cave has now been drafted on maps. This was the first time since 1984, that all of the existing Wind Cave survey had been drawn on maps. Since the last reported length of Wind Cave in Inside Earth, volunteer cavers have increased the surveyed length of the cave by 3.82 miles, establishing the current length of 121.66 miles. The Wind Cave survey passed Hoelloch Cave of Switzerland on 2/11/06 to become the fourth longest cave in the world (see article in this issue). 11