Source: https://antiquatours.wordpress.com/2013/01/29/a-visit-to-palazzo-della-cancelleria/
Title: A Visit To Palazzo della Cancelleria | antiquatours
Words: 3179

================================================================================

A Visit To Palazzo della Cancelleria 29 Jan Facade of the Palace Family Crest of the della Rovere The inner courtyard Inner Courtyard Copy of Roman relief from the burial chamber of a Roman general that fought under Domitian (found on site)-Original in the Vatican Museums The fireplace (the most interested part of this hall Gorgeous Ceiling The strangest Jonah I have ever laid eyes on-Salviati Cappella del Palio-Salviati Ceiling in the Cappella del Palio-F. Salviati Palazzo della Cancelleria was built between 1489 and 1513 for the Cardinal Riario who was the chancel of the Pope. It is one of the first palaces in Rome built from the ground up in the “new” Renaissance style using scavenged travertine from the nearby Theatre of Pompey as well as Egyptian granite columns that were originally used to build the 5th century church San Lorenzo in Damascus. This church was engulfed by the palace. Many hands have played a part in the execution of this palace including some of the most important families in Roman history such as the Della Rovere, the Farnese. Some sources claim the palace is based on the designs of the great Bramante. A visit to the place gives us a great idea of how Renaissance palaces looked like in Rome. The palace is in a strategic area where there were two markets. Inside you can see murals by Vasari and you can visit a chapel decorated by the mannerist artist Francesco Salviati in the Cappella del Palio. Worth a visit to see the fireplace Julius III escaped from. If you are interested in a private visit to this palace or any other place, please feel free to contact us at info@antiquatours.com Or check us out at Antiqua Tours Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Like Loading. Related Tags: della Rovere, Farnese, Francesco Salviati, Palazzo della Cancelleria, Roman palaces, Special visits in Rome, tours in Rome, Vasari in Rome Comments Leave a Comment Categories Antiqua Tours, art, art history, Mannerism, Palazzo in Rome, Renaissance, Rome, tours, Uncategorized ← Vineyards in the Castelli Romani Near Rome Foraging and Greens in Lazio → Leave a comment Cancel reply Δ A Visit To Palazzo della Cancelleria 29 Jan Facade of the Palace Family Crest of the della Rovere The inner courtyard Inner Courtyard Copy of Roman relief from the burial chamber of a Roman general that fought under Domitian (found on site)-Original in the Vatican Museums The fireplace (the most interested part of this hall Gorgeous Ceiling The strangest Jonah I have ever laid eyes on-Salviati Cappella del Palio-Salviati Ceiling in the Cappella del Palio-F. Salviati Palazzo della Cancelleria was built between 1489 and 1513 for the Cardinal Riario who was the chancel of the Pope. It is one of the first palaces in Rome built from the ground up in the “new” Renaissance style using scavenged travertine from the nearby Theatre of Pompey as well as Egyptian granite columns that were originally used to build the 5th century church San Lorenzo in Damascus. This church was engulfed by the palace. Many hands have played a part in the execution of this palace including some of the most important families in Roman history such as the Della Rovere, the Farnese. Some sources claim the palace is based on the designs of the great Bramante. A visit to the place gives us a great idea of how Renaissance palaces looked like in Rome. The palace is in a strategic area where there were two markets. Inside you can see murals by Vasari and you can visit a chapel decorated by the mannerist artist Francesco Salviati in the Cappella del Palio. Worth a visit to see the fireplace Julius III escaped from. If you are interested in a private visit to this palace or any other place, please feel free to contact us at info@antiquatours.com Or check us out at Antiqua Tours Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Like Loading. Related Tags: della Rovere, Farnese, Francesco Salviati, Palazzo della Cancelleria, Roman palaces, Special visits in Rome, tours in Rome, Vasari in Rome Comments Leave a Comment Categories Antiqua Tours, art, art history, Mannerism, Palazzo in Rome, Renaissance, Rome, tours, Uncategorized ← Vineyards in the Castelli Romani Near Rome Foraging and Greens in Lazio → A Visit To Palazzo della Cancelleria Facade of the Palace Family Crest of the della Rovere The inner courtyard Inner Courtyard Copy of Roman relief from the burial chamber of a Roman general that fought under Domitian (found on site)-Original in the Vatican Museums The fireplace (the most interested part of this hall Gorgeous Ceiling The strangest Jonah I have ever laid eyes on-Salviati Cappella del Palio-Salviati Ceiling in the Cappella del Palio-F. Salviati Palazzo della Cancelleria was built between 1489 and 1513 for the Cardinal Riario who was the chancel of the Pope. It is one of the first palaces in Rome built from the ground up in the “new” Renaissance style using scavenged travertine from the nearby Theatre of Pompey as well as Egyptian granite columns that were originally used to build the 5th century church San Lorenzo in Damascus. This church was engulfed by the palace. Many hands have played a part in the execution of this palace including some of the most important families in Roman history such as the Della Rovere, the Farnese. Some sources claim the palace is based on the designs of the great Bramante. A visit to the place gives us a great idea of how Renaissance palaces looked like in Rome. The palace is in a strategic area where there were two markets. Inside you can see murals by Vasari and you can visit a chapel decorated by the mannerist artist Francesco Salviati in the Cappella del Palio. Worth a visit to see the fireplace Julius III escaped from. If you are interested in a private visit to this palace or any other place, please feel free to contact us at info@antiquatours.com Or check us out at Antiqua Tours Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Like Loading. Related Tags: della Rovere, Farnese, Francesco Salviati, Palazzo della Cancelleria, Roman palaces, Special visits in Rome, tours in Rome, Vasari in Rome Facade of the Palace Facade of the Palace Family Crest of the della Rovere Family Crest of the della Rovere The inner courtyard The inner courtyard Inner Courtyard Inner Courtyard Copy of Roman relief from the burial chamber of a Roman general that fought under Domitian (found on site)-Original in the Vatican Museums Copy of Roman relief from the burial chamber of a Roman general that fought under Domitian (found on site)-Original in the Vatican Museums The fireplace (the most interested part of this hall The fireplace (the most interested part of this hall Gorgeous Ceiling Gorgeous Ceiling The strangest Jonah I have ever laid eyes on-Salviati The strangest Jonah I have ever laid eyes on-Salviati Cappella del Palio-Salviati Cappella del Palio-Salviati Ceiling in the Cappella del Palio-F. Salviati Ceiling in the Cappella del Palio-F. Salviati Palazzo della Cancelleria was built between 1489 and 1513 for the Cardinal Riario who was the chancel of the Pope. It is one of the first palaces in Rome built from the ground up in the “new” Renaissance style using scavenged travertine from the nearby Theatre of Pompey as well as Egyptian granite columns that were originally used to build the 5th century church San Lorenzo in Damascus. This church was engulfed by the palace. Many hands have played a part in the execution of this palace including some of the most important families in Roman history such as the Della Rovere, the Farnese. Some sources claim the palace is based on the designs of the great Bramante. A visit to the place gives us a great idea of how Renaissance palaces looked like in Rome. The palace is in a strategic area where there were two markets. Inside you can see murals by Vasari and you can visit a chapel decorated by the mannerist artist Francesco Salviati in the Cappella del Palio. Worth a visit to see the fireplace Julius III escaped from. If you are interested in a private visit to this palace or any other place, please feel free to contact us at info@antiquatours.com Or check us out at Antiqua Tours Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Like Loading. Related Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Like Loading. Like Loading. Tags: della Rovere, Farnese, Francesco Salviati, Palazzo della Cancelleria, Roman palaces, Special visits in Rome, tours in Rome, Vasari in Rome Comments Leave a Comment Categories Antiqua Tours, art, art history, Mannerism, Palazzo in Rome, Renaissance, Rome, tours, Uncategorized Comments Leave a Comment Categories Antiqua Tours, art, art history, Mannerism, Palazzo in Rome, Renaissance, Rome, tours, Uncategorized ← Vineyards in the Castelli Romani Near Rome Foraging and Greens in Lazio → ← Vineyards in the Castelli Romani Near Rome Foraging and Greens in Lazio → Leave a comment Cancel reply Δ Leave a comment Cancel reply Featured Posts Excursion to Nemi We think any excursion to the Castelli Romani must include the gorgeous town and lake of Nemi. It is a very magical mysterious place!! It is also famous for strawberries Do you want to join us on an excursion from Rome? Contact us for more information Sharing Lazio with Friends Last weekend friends from Holland came to Rome and we took them on an excursion to Latina. I think Natasha’s photo sums up a Lazio experience. Culture, wine, food and fun. Join us for an excursion from Rome Top 9 Wine Bars in Rome We’ve compiled a list of our favorite enoteche (wine bars) in Rome Check it out on our blog Rome in the Spring It has been so much fun leading tours in Rome lately. There is wonderful food available during our culinary stroll and it has been great walking through the city for cultural tours as well. Natural Wine in Italy I admit I am a “naturalist” Vej is my favorite wine at the moment. It tastes like sunshine in a bottle. It is alive, delicious and unique. It is made from Malvasia grapes and macerated with the skins. Only ambient yeasts are used. No sulphites added! If you want to taste natural Italian wine please […] Calendar of My Posts January 2013 M T W T F S S 123456 78910111213 14151617181920 21222324252627 28293031 Follow Us on Follow Us on Tags#winelover Antiqua Tours archeology artichokes Bellone byzantine mosaics carciofi Castelli Romani Cesanese circus maximus Cori day tour day trips Day Trips from Rome della Rovere eating near the Vatican edible weeds Excursions from Rome Farnese field greens food foodie food of Lazio food tours Rome foraging Francesco Salviati Frascati Frascati tours Genzano di Roma group wine tour Rome How to Tour Italy Show Italian wine Italy Lago di Nemi Lazio Lazio wine Marco Carpineti natural wine Nemi Nero Buono Orvieto Palazzo della Cancelleria Roman Army Roman mosaics Roman palaces Rome Rome Wine Tours Sagrantino di Montefalco Sant Agnese Fuori Le Mura Sermoneta Special visits in Rome student group tours from Rome The Rome Digest tour in Rome tours tours in Rome travel Umbria Vasari in Rome Vatican vineyards Where to drink wine in Rome wine winery wines of Lazio wine tasting wine tasting in Rome wine tasting Rome wine tasting rour from Rome wine tour Wine tour from Rome wine tour in Rome wine tour Rome wine tours Wine tours in RomeTweetsTweets by AntiquaToursBlogs I FollowItalian Wine GeekAndre RibeirinhoCharles Scicolone on WineDo Bianchirachel eatsLove & LuceantiquatoursWordPress.com News Featured Posts Excursion to Nemi We think any excursion to the Castelli Romani must include the gorgeous town and lake of Nemi. It is a very magical mysterious place!! It is also famous for strawberries Do you want to join us on an excursion from Rome? Contact us for more information Sharing Lazio with Friends Last weekend friends from Holland came to Rome and we took them on an excursion to Latina. I think Natasha’s photo sums up a Lazio experience. Culture, wine, food and fun. Join us for an excursion from Rome Top 9 Wine Bars in Rome We’ve compiled a list of our favorite enoteche (wine bars) in Rome Check it out on our blog Rome in the Spring It has been so much fun leading tours in Rome lately. There is wonderful food available during our culinary stroll and it has been great walking through the city for cultural tours as well. Natural Wine in Italy I admit I am a “naturalist” Vej is my favorite wine at the moment. It tastes like sunshine in a bottle. It is alive, delicious and unique. It is made from Malvasia grapes and macerated with the skins. Only ambient yeasts are used. No sulphites added! If you want to taste natural Italian wine please […] Featured Posts Excursion to Nemi We think any excursion to the Castelli Romani must include the gorgeous town and lake of Nemi. It is a very magical mysterious place!! It is also famous for strawberries Do you want to join us on an excursion from Rome? Contact us for more information Excursion to Nemi We think any excursion to the Castelli Romani must include the gorgeous town and lake of Nemi. It is a very magical mysterious place!! It is also famous for strawberries Do you want to join us on an excursion from Rome? Contact us for more information Excursion to Nemi We think any excursion to the Castelli Romani must include the gorgeous town and lake of Nemi. It is a very magical mysterious place!! It is also famous for strawberries Do you want to join us on an excursion from Rome? Contact us for more information Sharing Lazio with Friends Last weekend friends from Holland came to Rome and we took them on an excursion to Latina. I think Natasha’s photo sums up a Lazio experience. Culture, wine, food and fun. Join us for an excursion from Rome Sharing Lazio with Friends Last weekend friends from Holland came to Rome and we took them on an excursion to Latina. I think Natasha’s photo sums up a Lazio experience. Culture, wine, food and fun. Join us for an excursion from Rome Sharing Lazio with Friends Last weekend friends from Holland came to Rome and we took them on an excursion to Latina. I think Natasha’s photo sums up a Lazio experience. Culture, wine, food and fun. Join us for an excursion from Rome Top 9 Wine Bars in Rome We’ve compiled a list of our favorite enoteche (wine bars) in Rome Check it out on our blog Top 9 Wine Bars in Rome We’ve compiled a list of our favorite enoteche (wine bars) in Rome Check it out on our blog Top 9 Wine Bars in Rome We’ve compiled a list of our favorite enoteche (wine bars) in Rome Check it out on our blog Rome in the Spring It has been so much fun leading tours in Rome lately. There is wonderful food available during our culinary stroll and it has been great walking through the city for cultural tours as well. Rome in the Spring It has been so much fun leading tours in Rome lately. There is wonderful food available during our culinary stroll and it has been great walking through the city for cultural tours as well. Rome in the Spring It has been so much fun leading tours in Rome lately. There is wonderful food available during our culinary stroll and it has been great walking through the city for cultural tours as well. Natural Wine in Italy I admit I am a “naturalist” Vej is my favorite wine at the moment. It tastes like sunshine in a bottle. It is alive, delicious and unique. It is made from Malvasia grapes and macerated with the skins. Only ambient yeasts are used. No sulphites added! If you want to taste natural Italian wine please […] Natural Wine in Italy I admit I am a “naturalist” Vej is my favorite wine at the moment. It tastes like sunshine in a bottle. It is alive, delicious and unique. It is made from Malvasia grapes and macerated with the skins. Only ambient yeasts are used. No sulphites added! If you want to taste natural Italian wine please […] Natural Wine in Italy I admit I am a “naturalist” Vej is my favorite wine at the moment. It tastes like sunshine in a bottle. It is alive, delicious and unique. It is made from Malvasia grapes and macerated with the skins. Only ambient yeasts are used. No sulphites added! If you want to taste natural Italian wine please […] Calendar of My Posts January 2013 M T W T F S S 123456 78910111213 14151617181920 21222324252627 28293031 Calendar of My Posts January 2013 M T W T F S S 123456 78910111213 14151617181920 21222324252627 28293031 Follow Us on Follow Us on Follow Us on Follow Us on Follow Us on Tags#winelover Antiqua Tours archeology artichokes Bellone byzantine mosaics carciofi Castelli Romani Cesanese circus maximus Cori day tour day trips Day Trips from Rome della Rovere eating near the Vatican edible weeds Excursions from Rome Farnese field greens food foodie food of Lazio food tours Rome foraging Francesco Salviati Frascati Frascati tours Genzano di Roma group wine tour Rome How to Tour Italy Show Italian wine Italy Lago di Nemi Lazio Lazio wine Marco Carpineti natural wine Nemi Nero Buono Orvieto Palazzo della Cancelleria Roman Army Roman mosaics Roman palaces Rome Rome Wine Tours Sagrantino di Montefalco Sant Agnese Fuori Le Mura Sermoneta Special visits in Rome student group tours from Rome The Rome Digest tour in Rome tours tours in Rome travel Umbria Vasari in Rome Vatican vineyards Where to drink wine in Rome wine winery wines of Lazio wine tasting wine tasting in Rome wine tasting Rome wine tasting rour from Rome wine tour Wine tour from Rome wine tour in Rome wine tour Rome wine tours Wine tours in Rome TweetsTweets by AntiquaTours Blogs I FollowItalian Wine GeekAndre RibeirinhoCharles Scicolone on WineDo Bianchirachel eatsLove & LuceantiquatoursWordPress.com News Blogs I Follow Italian Wine Geek Andre Ribeirinho Charles Scicolone on Wine rachel eats Love & Luce antiquatours WordPress.com News