Source: https://blabbermouth.net/news/robert-plant-s-band-of-joy-lands-on-european-albums-chart
Title: ROBERT PLANT's 'Band Of Joy' Lands On European Albums Chart - BLABBERMOUTH.NET
Words: 1762

================================================================================

ROBERT PLANT's 'Band Of Joy' Lands On European Albums ChartSeptember 24, 2010According to Billboard.com, "Band of Joy", the new album from Robert Plant and BAND OF JOY — a new version of his pre-LED ZEPPELIN group which also featured the late John Bonham — landed at position No. 5 on Billboard's European Albums chart. The CD sold 35,000 copies in the U.K. to debut at No. 3, and the set is in at No. 3 in Norway, No. 6 in Flanders, No. 8 in Ireland and up 22-10 in Wallony."Band of Joy" sold 49,000 copies in the United States in its first week of release to debut at position No. 5 on The Billboard 200 chart. Plant's first release since recording the six-time Grammy-winning bluegrass album "Raising Sand" with collaborator Alison Krauss in 2007, the "Band of Joy" CD enlists the help of an array of U.S. musicians, all of whom are performing with Plant on tour.Plant previewed the album at a low-key gig in New York earlier in the summer, and amongst the 12 tracks are covers of a rare TOWNES VAN ZANDT track "Harm's Swift Way", as well as two tracks — "Silver Rider" and "Monkey" — from indie band LOW, both from their 2005 album "The Great Destroyer".Plant says on his web site of "Band of Joy" that "It's been a blast working on these new songs . and I'm enjoying such creativity and vitality. It's been a remarkable change of direction for all of us and as a group we all seem to have developed a new groove."The new lineup of BAND OF JOY includes: Patty Griffin on vocals; Darrell Scott on multiple instruments and vocals; Byron House on bass and vocals; Marco Giovino on drums, percussion and vocals; and co-producer Buddy Miller on guitar and vocals."Band of Joy" track listing:01. Angel Dance02. House Of Cards03. Central Two-O-Nine04. Silver Rider05. You Can't Buy My Love06. Falling In Love Again07. The Only Sound That Matters08. Monkey09. Cindy, I'll Marry You Someday10. Harm's Swift Way11. Satan Your Kingdom Must Come Down12. Even This Shall Pass Away Find more on Prev More News Next ROBERT PLANT's 'Band Of Joy' Lands On European Albums ChartSeptember 24, 2010According to Billboard.com, "Band of Joy", the new album from Robert Plant and BAND OF JOY — a new version of his pre-LED ZEPPELIN group which also featured the late John Bonham — landed at position No. 5 on Billboard's European Albums chart. The CD sold 35,000 copies in the U.K. to debut at No. 3, and the set is in at No. 3 in Norway, No. 6 in Flanders, No. 8 in Ireland and up 22-10 in Wallony."Band of Joy" sold 49,000 copies in the United States in its first week of release to debut at position No. 5 on The Billboard 200 chart. Plant's first release since recording the six-time Grammy-winning bluegrass album "Raising Sand" with collaborator Alison Krauss in 2007, the "Band of Joy" CD enlists the help of an array of U.S. musicians, all of whom are performing with Plant on tour.Plant previewed the album at a low-key gig in New York earlier in the summer, and amongst the 12 tracks are covers of a rare TOWNES VAN ZANDT track "Harm's Swift Way", as well as two tracks — "Silver Rider" and "Monkey" — from indie band LOW, both from their 2005 album "The Great Destroyer".Plant says on his web site of "Band of Joy" that "It's been a blast working on these new songs . and I'm enjoying such creativity and vitality. It's been a remarkable change of direction for all of us and as a group we all seem to have developed a new groove."The new lineup of BAND OF JOY includes: Patty Griffin on vocals; Darrell Scott on multiple instruments and vocals; Byron House on bass and vocals; Marco Giovino on drums, percussion and vocals; and co-producer Buddy Miller on guitar and vocals."Band of Joy" track listing:01. Angel Dance02. House Of Cards03. Central Two-O-Nine04. Silver Rider05. You Can't Buy My Love06. Falling In Love Again07. The Only Sound That Matters08. Monkey09. Cindy, I'll Marry You Someday10. Harm's Swift Way11. Satan Your Kingdom Must Come Down12. Even This Shall Pass Away Find more on Prev More News Next ROBERT PLANT's 'Band Of Joy' Lands On European Albums ChartSeptember 24, 2010According to Billboard.com, "Band of Joy", the new album from Robert Plant and BAND OF JOY — a new version of his pre-LED ZEPPELIN group which also featured the late John Bonham — landed at position No. 5 on Billboard's European Albums chart. The CD sold 35,000 copies in the U.K. to debut at No. 3, and the set is in at No. 3 in Norway, No. 6 in Flanders, No. 8 in Ireland and up 22-10 in Wallony."Band of Joy" sold 49,000 copies in the United States in its first week of release to debut at position No. 5 on The Billboard 200 chart. Plant's first release since recording the six-time Grammy-winning bluegrass album "Raising Sand" with collaborator Alison Krauss in 2007, the "Band of Joy" CD enlists the help of an array of U.S. musicians, all of whom are performing with Plant on tour.Plant previewed the album at a low-key gig in New York earlier in the summer, and amongst the 12 tracks are covers of a rare TOWNES VAN ZANDT track "Harm's Swift Way", as well as two tracks — "Silver Rider" and "Monkey" — from indie band LOW, both from their 2005 album "The Great Destroyer".Plant says on his web site of "Band of Joy" that "It's been a blast working on these new songs . and I'm enjoying such creativity and vitality. It's been a remarkable change of direction for all of us and as a group we all seem to have developed a new groove."The new lineup of BAND OF JOY includes: Patty Griffin on vocals; Darrell Scott on multiple instruments and vocals; Byron House on bass and vocals; Marco Giovino on drums, percussion and vocals; and co-producer Buddy Miller on guitar and vocals."Band of Joy" track listing:01. Angel Dance02. House Of Cards03. Central Two-O-Nine04. Silver Rider05. You Can't Buy My Love06. Falling In Love Again07. The Only Sound That Matters08. Monkey09. Cindy, I'll Marry You Someday10. Harm's Swift Way11. Satan Your Kingdom Must Come Down12. Even This Shall Pass Away ROBERT PLANT's 'Band Of Joy' Lands On European Albums Chart According to Billboard.com, "Band of Joy", the new album from Robert Plant and BAND OF JOY — a new version of his pre-LED ZEPPELIN group which also featured the late John Bonham — landed at position No. 5 on Billboard's European Albums chart. The CD sold 35,000 copies in the U.K. to debut at No. 3, and the set is in at No. 3 in Norway, No. 6 in Flanders, No. 8 in Ireland and up 22-10 in Wallony."Band of Joy" sold 49,000 copies in the United States in its first week of release to debut at position No. 5 on The Billboard 200 chart. Plant's first release since recording the six-time Grammy-winning bluegrass album "Raising Sand" with collaborator Alison Krauss in 2007, the "Band of Joy" CD enlists the help of an array of U.S. musicians, all of whom are performing with Plant on tour.Plant previewed the album at a low-key gig in New York earlier in the summer, and amongst the 12 tracks are covers of a rare TOWNES VAN ZANDT track "Harm's Swift Way", as well as two tracks — "Silver Rider" and "Monkey" — from indie band LOW, both from their 2005 album "The Great Destroyer".Plant says on his web site of "Band of Joy" that "It's been a blast working on these new songs . and I'm enjoying such creativity and vitality. It's been a remarkable change of direction for all of us and as a group we all seem to have developed a new groove."The new lineup of BAND OF JOY includes: Patty Griffin on vocals; Darrell Scott on multiple instruments and vocals; Byron House on bass and vocals; Marco Giovino on drums, percussion and vocals; and co-producer Buddy Miller on guitar and vocals."Band of Joy" track listing:01. Angel Dance02. House Of Cards03. Central Two-O-Nine04. Silver Rider05. You Can't Buy My Love06. Falling In Love Again07. The Only Sound That Matters08. Monkey09. Cindy, I'll Marry You Someday10. Harm's Swift Way11. Satan Your Kingdom Must Come Down12. Even This Shall Pass Away According to Billboard.com, "Band of Joy", the new album from Robert Plant and BAND OF JOY — a new version of his pre-LED ZEPPELIN group which also featured the late John Bonham — landed at position No. 5 on Billboard's European Albums chart. The CD sold 35,000 copies in the U.K. to debut at No. 3, and the set is in at No. 3 in Norway, No. 6 in Flanders, No. 8 in Ireland and up 22-10 in Wallony. "Band of Joy" sold 49,000 copies in the United States in its first week of release to debut at position No. 5 on The Billboard 200 chart. Plant's first release since recording the six-time Grammy-winning bluegrass album "Raising Sand" with collaborator Alison Krauss in 2007, the "Band of Joy" CD enlists the help of an array of U.S. musicians, all of whom are performing with Plant on tour. Plant previewed the album at a low-key gig in New York earlier in the summer, and amongst the 12 tracks are covers of a rare TOWNES VAN ZANDT track "Harm's Swift Way", as well as two tracks — "Silver Rider" and "Monkey" — from indie band LOW, both from their 2005 album "The Great Destroyer". Plant says on his web site of "Band of Joy" that "It's been a blast working on these new songs . and I'm enjoying such creativity and vitality. It's been a remarkable change of direction for all of us and as a group we all seem to have developed a new groove." The new lineup of BAND OF JOY includes: Patty Griffin on vocals; Darrell Scott on multiple instruments and vocals; Byron House on bass and vocals; Marco Giovino on drums, percussion and vocals; and co-producer Buddy Miller on guitar and vocals. "Band of Joy" track listing: 01. Angel Dance02. House Of Cards03. Central Two-O-Nine04. Silver Rider05. You Can't Buy My Love06. Falling In Love Again07. The Only Sound That Matters08. Monkey09. Cindy, I'll Marry You Someday10. Harm's Swift Way11. Satan Your Kingdom Must Come Down12. Even This Shall Pass Away Find more on Find more on Prev More News Next Prev More News Next