Source: https://artsandculture.google.com/story/bunka-fashion-college-a-timeline-of-japanese-fashion-bunka-fashion-college/9gVRcVqm1sl1Iw?hl=en
Title: Bunka Fashion College: A timeline of Japanese fashion — Google Arts & Culture
Words: 17406

================================================================================

HomeExplorePlayNearbyFavoritesSign inLoading… HomeExplorePlayNearbyFavoritesSign in HomeExplorePlayNearbyFavorites Bunka Fashion College: A timeline of Japanese fashionJapanese fashion develops together with the history of Bunka Fashion College.By Bunka Fashion Collegeayumi_7Bunka Fashion CollegeJapan’s first fashion school opensThe beginnings of Bunka Fashion College can be traced back to 1919, around the time of the end of the First World War. It started with Isaburo Namiki opening a small establishment called Namiki Women's and Children's Dressmaking Shop, which included a school for women's and children's dressmaking, in Aoyama, Akasaka-ku, Tokyo. After working many years as a tailor of women’s and children’s clothing, Namiki struck out on his own and opened this sewing school. But the sudden popularity of children’s clothing meant that there were not enough skilled sewers to meet demand. Namiki paved the way for the teaching of dressmaking, believing that it should be taught in a shorter period of time, and as a basic part of the skills of a housewife, rather than by initiating people into the art of dressmaking through long-term apprenticeships.Flag of Bunka Fashion College (1919/1919)Bunka Fashion CollegeReforming Japanese fashionSeijiro Endo, who was a salesman at a sewing machine company, was shocked at the fact that housewives were failing to take advantage of the sewing machine because of their lack of knowledge of how to make Western clothes, and felt the establishment of an institution that would teach appropriate dressmaking was urgently needed. Endo met Namiki, and the two men were in complete agreement about reforming Japanese fashion. Endo envisioned a time in the future when fashion in Japan would change from traditional Japanese clothing to Western clothing.Bunka fashion College (1955-10)Bunka Fashion CollegeBunka Sewing SchoolIn 1922, the shop became the Bunka Sewing School, located in a three-story timber structure at Fukuro-machi, Ushigome, Tokyo. It started with four students and seven apprentices. The following year, the school was renamed in accordance with a Tokyo ordinance and began a bright new future as Bunka Sewing School for Women.Isaburo Namiki, founder of the college., 1877/1877, From the collection of: Bunka Fashion CollegeShow lessRead moreIsaburo NamikiNamiki was born in 1887 in Saitama Prefecture. He showed an unusually keen interest in sewing from an early age, and in 1903, at the introduction of Sekiko Toita, he went to study with Ijima Fujin Yofuku Ten (“Ijima Women’s Clothier”) a third-generation tailor dating from the Meiji Era. Over the course of 18 years, he attained profound skill and experience as a tailor of women’s and children’s clothing. In 1919, he opened his own establishment, Namiki Women's and Children's Dressmaking Shop, which included a school for women's and children's dressmaking. After working as a teacher in the Western clothing department of Toita Saiho Jogakko (“Toita Girls’ Sewing School”) and Shinga Mishin Saiho Jogakko (“Singer Sewing Machine Girls' School”), in 1922, he established the Bunka Sewing School, and served as its head. At the dawn of the age of dressmaking in Japan, he devised a teaching system utilizing patterns, establishing a foundation for fashion education. He died in 1933 at the age of 46.Seijiro Endo, founder of the college., 1894/1894, From the collection of: Bunka Fashion CollegeShow lessRead moreSeijiro EndoEndo was born in 1894 in Iwate Prefecture. In 1917, he went to Tokyo, worked as an interpreter for visitors to Japan. Interested in English he joined Singer Sewing Machine Company the same year, and achieved tremendous success as a salesman. In 1919, he met Namiki Isaburo, and while helping him to manage his school, he came to see fashion education as his life’s mission, and left Singer, devoting himself to the school’s administration. He recruited students and worked on PR, expanded publishing projects such as Fukuso Bunka (“Fashion Culture”), Soen, and Bunka Fukuso Koza (“Bunka Fashion Course”), and fostered the Bunka Fashion College Network, contributing to the organization and prosperity of the College. He died in 1960 at the age of 66.Prototype of the founding era (1923)Bunka Fashion CollegeDesign of patternsThis pattern dates back to when Isaburo Namiki founded the school, devised according to his own unique system for teaching sewing skills. Incorporating techniques from cutting experts, he made patterns that expressed body dimensions and characteristics in two-dimensional form. Dress patterns made on this basis could be easily applied to a large range of garments. This thinking has been passed down to the present, with patterns being researched and produced for each period in order to match changing body shapes.Modern Girl (1927/1927)Bunka Fashion CollegeTeachers were fashion trendsetters!Women wearing a new style—short skirts with low waistlines and bobbed hair and cloches—were called ”modern girls” or simply “moga.” Although Kimonos were still common, people were gradually becoming accustomed to Western clothing, and teachers sporting the “moga” style became fashion trendsetters for their students.First issue of Soen magazine. (1946/1946)Bunka Fashion CollegePublishing DepartmentIn 1934, the Publishing Department was established in the Bunka Sewing School for Women, the precursor of today’s Bunka Publishing Bureau. In addition to the fact that publishing books that could be used as textbooks was a more effective way of educating the increasing number of students, the school also aimed to popularize fashion education and enhance fashion culture.Dressmaking Lecture, 1935/1935, From the collection of: Bunka Fashion CollegeShow lessRead moreAll six volumes of Bunka Yosai Koza (“Bunka Dressmaking Course”) were completed in 1935, after a year of work. The culmination of years of teaching traditional fashion, these volumes also came to be used in correspondence courses, and raised the school’s reputation to the highest level in the industry.Molding Knit WearBunka Fashion CollegeWestern clothing and dressmaking skillsIt became commonplace for Japanese to wear Western clothing after the First World War. Stores selling clothes for women and children could be found throughout town, and demand for children’s clothing in particular increased rapidly. As a result, there was a lack of skilled dressmakers, and dressmaking schools began to pop up everywhere. Bunka Fashion College became Japan’s first full-fledged, accredited dressmaking trade school in 1923, right around the time when the wearing of Western clothing in Japan was becoming more popular than ever. There was also a marked increase in women wearing Western clothing after the Great Kanto earthquake, which struck in September of the same year, and highlighted the need for improvements in clothing. It was the golden age of the Western clothing industry in Japan, and saw an increase in the number of dressmaking schooStudent Union (1950/1950)Bunka Fashion CollegeThe Showa Era, beginning in 1926, became the age of technology. The technological wellspring of Bunka Fashion College was the artisan’s skills the school’s founder, Isaburo Namiki, had acquired working at clothing stores. Many teachers started out as tailors at long-established stores, and created practical courses that respected and passed on these artisanal skills, initiating students into the secrets of the trade in the classroom. And, after the Second World War, information from Europe and the U.S. became freely available, marking the beginning of an upbeat age full of new, exciting things and experiences. Graphic designers became more prominent, and there was also growing demand for professional training in order to foster designers in the field of fashion design.Class Scene (1951/1951)Bunka Fashion CollegeIn 1951, design courses were launched. At the time, with teachers also serving as designers, the College felt a need to train designers early on, and put effort into educating Japanese designers.Pattern paper of draping (1958)Bunka Fashion CollegePostwar Japanese fashion and influences from outside JapanDuring the occupation after the Second World War, American fashion and culture flowed into Japan. Young women adopted made-over dresses with a military look, using shoulder pads with blouses and sweaters. Soon after it came back into publication, Soen gave extensive coverage to these American styles, and the College studied these new lines. In 1947, a new designer, Christian Dior, made a spectacular debut in Paris, and Parisian fashion became the focus of global attention—a new look with gentle shoulder lines and long, flowing flared skirts. News from Paris also became an important source for fashion designs.A lecture of the technical training by Pierre Cardin, 1958/1958, From the collection of: Bunka Fashion CollegeShow lessRead moreIn 1953, as part of the events celebrating the 30th anniversary of the College’s founding, Christian Dior and his entourage were invited to Japan, and fashion shows were held in Tokyo, Nagoya, Kyoto, and Osaka. The Paris fashions displayed at the shows caused excitement throughout Japanese society, extending far beyond the fashion world. Afterwards many other designers came to Japan and held shows at the College, allowing students to see and study top shows from abroad when they were studying.Class scene (1957/1957)Bunka Fashion CollegeAiming to become the world’s top designersThe first male students entered the College in 1957. The fact that 23 of 7,000 new students were men made the headlines. The head of the college, Seijiro Endo, expressed the following sentiment: “The world’s top designers and pattern cutters are men. It is my hope that you become active at the forefront as teachers and designers.” Many of the male students were aspiring designers, and are said to have clearly stated on their applications that they wanted to make lifelong careers as designers. Kenzo Takada and Mitsuhiro Matsuda, who were male students who entered the College the following year, and many others thereafter went on to become designers active in global fashion.Prospectus (1955)Bunka Fashion CollegeNew curriculums for professional training in fashionDemand for new curriculums arose as more professional education became necessary to train designers for the field of fashion. So, in 1951, the College launched design courses. Courses were created, with first-rate teachers brought in from each field, to study new ways of making clothes by working from the design concept on up. The fashion industry entered the age of prêt-à-porter in the 1970s, against a backdrop of mass production and consumption. The College also underwent its second education reform. In 1976, with changes to the legislative framework for specialized training colleges, the College developed a three-pillared education policy that took into greater consideration new forms of professional training in fashion.Hat department class (1971/1971)Bunka Fashion CollegeFashion Creation courses are programs that teach general fashion knowledge and skills. Fashion Technology courses teach specialized knowledge and skills in fields that manufacture fashion products, with the aim of training students to work in the apparel industry. Fashion Marketing and Distribution courses train students to be able to work with distribution channels in the industry. Fashion Accessories and Textiles courses were added in 1983, and continue to the present day.Photo of graduated students (1977)Bunka Fashion CollegeJapanese designers go out into the worldIn the 1970s, a growing number of Japanese travelled to Paris, which was the mecca of fashion, including many graduates from Bunka Fashion College, who worked hard in Paris in the midst of harsh social circumstances. Of them, Kenzo Takada (fashion design) became one of the most well-known Japanese at the time. He opened a store in the key Fashion district, and became a great success, on a par with Yves Saint Laurent and Sonia Rykiel.Fashion Show (1979/1979)Bunka Fashion CollegeThe fashion show, “Ten Designers on the World Stage,” celebrating the 60th anniversary of the College’s founding, was held by graduates for the opening of Endo Memorial Hall. The brand names of each designer shone like neon on the stage, and the brightly colored clothes of Kenzo Takada were a great success. Yutaka Hasegawa, Tadayomi Sakaide, Norio Suzuki, Mitsuhiro Matsuda (Nicole), Yohji Yamamoto (Yohji Yamamoto), Hiroko Koshino (Hiroko Koshino), Junko Koshino (Junko Koshino), Meiko Kitahara (Mine May), and Isao Kaneko (Pink House) each presented marvelous shows. These were a great inspiration for students at the College, who looked up to these graduates of their school.Contest Fashion Show (2016)Bunka Fashion CollegeStars born thanks to Soen Award, a gateway to success for new designersIn 1956, the Soen Award was established in celebration of the 20th anniversary of the magazine Soen. Created with the aim of fostering new designers, it was conceived as a gateway to success that would send new young talent into the fashion world.Advertisement of Soen (1956/1956)Bunka Fashion CollegeJurors consisted of a veritable who’s who of the fashion world at the time, including Bunka Fashion College teachers. An air of excitement filled the jury venue as fashion design underwent serious scrutiny, with questions such as “How should clothes be made to reflect the mood of the times?” and “What does it mean to create the clothes for the future?” All students attempted to win the Soen Award, and the number of challengers has increased year by year. The fact that Bunka Fashion College design students win year after year serves as a wonderful incentive for fellow classmates aiming to become professional designers.Prize-winning productions for Soen Fashon Contest in the past (1968) by Junko Koshino, Kenzo Takada, Tokio Kumagai, Yohji YamamotoBunka Fashion CollegeClass scene (2012/2012)Bunka Fashion CollegeJapanese fashion draws global attentionIn 2015, Bunka Fashion College was ranked second in the world in the Global Ranking of Fashion Schools published by UK fashion information website The Business of Fashion. The fact that it receives such high acclaim from outside Japan demonstrates the global industry's confidence in Bunka Fashion College’s history and educational policies, as well as high expectations for its future.Fashion ShowBunka Fashion CollegeNew fashion questSince its foundation, Bunka Fashion College has worked closely with the fashion industry as a central actor in Japanese fashion education, and developed together with the industry. As a leader in Japanese fashion education, it explores new forms of fashion that adapt to the times, engaging in joint research with companies and participating in collaborative initiatives that involve industry, government, and academia. Japanese fashion will continue to evolve and produce creators capable of performing on the global stage as a result of Bunka Fashion College continuing to hone students’ individuality and fashion sense, and ensuring that they acquire the knowledge and skills required to compete at an international level.Credits: All mediaThe story featured may in some cases have been created by an independent third party and may not always represent the views of the institutions, listed below, who have supplied the content.Bunka Fashion CollegeStories from Bunka Fashion CollegeOnline ExhibitCreative Creations by Students at Bunka Fashion CollegeBunka Fashion CollegeOnline ExhibitWhere fashion is bornBunka Fashion CollegeOnline ExhibitBunka Fashion College Fashion showsBunka Fashion CollegeExplore moreRelated themeWe Wear CultureThe stories behind what we wearView themeInterested in Fashion?Get updates with your personalized Culture WeeklyNo, thanksSign up nowYou are all set!Your first Culture Weekly will arrive this week.Ok Bunka Fashion College: A timeline of Japanese fashionJapanese fashion develops together with the history of Bunka Fashion College.By Bunka Fashion College Bunka Fashion College: A timeline of Japanese fashionJapanese fashion develops together with the history of Bunka Fashion College.By Bunka Fashion College Bunka Fashion College: A timeline of Japanese fashionJapanese fashion develops together with the history of Bunka Fashion College.By Bunka Fashion College Bunka Fashion College: A timeline of Japanese fashionJapanese fashion develops together with the history of Bunka Fashion College. Bunka Fashion College: A timeline of Japanese fashion Japanese fashion develops together with the history of Bunka Fashion College. By Bunka Fashion College By Bunka Fashion College By Bunka Fashion College ayumi_7Bunka Fashion CollegeJapan’s first fashion school opensThe beginnings of Bunka Fashion College can be traced back to 1919, around the time of the end of the First World War. It started with Isaburo Namiki opening a small establishment called Namiki Women's and Children's Dressmaking Shop, which included a school for women's and children's dressmaking, in Aoyama, Akasaka-ku, Tokyo. After working many years as a tailor of women’s and children’s clothing, Namiki struck out on his own and opened this sewing school. But the sudden popularity of children’s clothing meant that there were not enough skilled sewers to meet demand. Namiki paved the way for the teaching of dressmaking, believing that it should be taught in a shorter period of time, and as a basic part of the skills of a housewife, rather than by initiating people into the art of dressmaking through long-term apprenticeships.Flag of Bunka Fashion College (1919/1919)Bunka Fashion CollegeReforming Japanese fashionSeijiro Endo, who was a salesman at a sewing machine company, was shocked at the fact that housewives were failing to take advantage of the sewing machine because of their lack of knowledge of how to make Western clothes, and felt the establishment of an institution that would teach appropriate dressmaking was urgently needed. Endo met Namiki, and the two men were in complete agreement about reforming Japanese fashion. Endo envisioned a time in the future when fashion in Japan would change from traditional Japanese clothing to Western clothing.Bunka fashion College (1955-10)Bunka Fashion CollegeBunka Sewing SchoolIn 1922, the shop became the Bunka Sewing School, located in a three-story timber structure at Fukuro-machi, Ushigome, Tokyo. It started with four students and seven apprentices. The following year, the school was renamed in accordance with a Tokyo ordinance and began a bright new future as Bunka Sewing School for Women.Isaburo Namiki, founder of the college., 1877/1877, From the collection of: Bunka Fashion CollegeShow lessRead moreIsaburo NamikiNamiki was born in 1887 in Saitama Prefecture. He showed an unusually keen interest in sewing from an early age, and in 1903, at the introduction of Sekiko Toita, he went to study with Ijima Fujin Yofuku Ten (“Ijima Women’s Clothier”) a third-generation tailor dating from the Meiji Era. Over the course of 18 years, he attained profound skill and experience as a tailor of women’s and children’s clothing. In 1919, he opened his own establishment, Namiki Women's and Children's Dressmaking Shop, which included a school for women's and children's dressmaking. After working as a teacher in the Western clothing department of Toita Saiho Jogakko (“Toita Girls’ Sewing School”) and Shinga Mishin Saiho Jogakko (“Singer Sewing Machine Girls' School”), in 1922, he established the Bunka Sewing School, and served as its head. At the dawn of the age of dressmaking in Japan, he devised a teaching system utilizing patterns, establishing a foundation for fashion education. He died in 1933 at the age of 46.Seijiro Endo, founder of the college., 1894/1894, From the collection of: Bunka Fashion CollegeShow lessRead moreSeijiro EndoEndo was born in 1894 in Iwate Prefecture. In 1917, he went to Tokyo, worked as an interpreter for visitors to Japan. Interested in English he joined Singer Sewing Machine Company the same year, and achieved tremendous success as a salesman. In 1919, he met Namiki Isaburo, and while helping him to manage his school, he came to see fashion education as his life’s mission, and left Singer, devoting himself to the school’s administration. He recruited students and worked on PR, expanded publishing projects such as Fukuso Bunka (“Fashion Culture”), Soen, and Bunka Fukuso Koza (“Bunka Fashion Course”), and fostered the Bunka Fashion College Network, contributing to the organization and prosperity of the College. He died in 1960 at the age of 66.Prototype of the founding era (1923)Bunka Fashion CollegeDesign of patternsThis pattern dates back to when Isaburo Namiki founded the school, devised according to his own unique system for teaching sewing skills. Incorporating techniques from cutting experts, he made patterns that expressed body dimensions and characteristics in two-dimensional form. Dress patterns made on this basis could be easily applied to a large range of garments. This thinking has been passed down to the present, with patterns being researched and produced for each period in order to match changing body shapes.Modern Girl (1927/1927)Bunka Fashion CollegeTeachers were fashion trendsetters!Women wearing a new style—short skirts with low waistlines and bobbed hair and cloches—were called ”modern girls” or simply “moga.” Although Kimonos were still common, people were gradually becoming accustomed to Western clothing, and teachers sporting the “moga” style became fashion trendsetters for their students.First issue of Soen magazine. (1946/1946)Bunka Fashion CollegePublishing DepartmentIn 1934, the Publishing Department was established in the Bunka Sewing School for Women, the precursor of today’s Bunka Publishing Bureau. In addition to the fact that publishing books that could be used as textbooks was a more effective way of educating the increasing number of students, the school also aimed to popularize fashion education and enhance fashion culture.Dressmaking Lecture, 1935/1935, From the collection of: Bunka Fashion CollegeShow lessRead moreAll six volumes of Bunka Yosai Koza (“Bunka Dressmaking Course”) were completed in 1935, after a year of work. The culmination of years of teaching traditional fashion, these volumes also came to be used in correspondence courses, and raised the school’s reputation to the highest level in the industry.Molding Knit WearBunka Fashion CollegeWestern clothing and dressmaking skillsIt became commonplace for Japanese to wear Western clothing after the First World War. Stores selling clothes for women and children could be found throughout town, and demand for children’s clothing in particular increased rapidly. As a result, there was a lack of skilled dressmakers, and dressmaking schools began to pop up everywhere. Bunka Fashion College became Japan’s first full-fledged, accredited dressmaking trade school in 1923, right around the time when the wearing of Western clothing in Japan was becoming more popular than ever. There was also a marked increase in women wearing Western clothing after the Great Kanto earthquake, which struck in September of the same year, and highlighted the need for improvements in clothing. It was the golden age of the Western clothing industry in Japan, and saw an increase in the number of dressmaking schooStudent Union (1950/1950)Bunka Fashion CollegeThe Showa Era, beginning in 1926, became the age of technology. The technological wellspring of Bunka Fashion College was the artisan’s skills the school’s founder, Isaburo Namiki, had acquired working at clothing stores. Many teachers started out as tailors at long-established stores, and created practical courses that respected and passed on these artisanal skills, initiating students into the secrets of the trade in the classroom. And, after the Second World War, information from Europe and the U.S. became freely available, marking the beginning of an upbeat age full of new, exciting things and experiences. Graphic designers became more prominent, and there was also growing demand for professional training in order to foster designers in the field of fashion design.Class Scene (1951/1951)Bunka Fashion CollegeIn 1951, design courses were launched. At the time, with teachers also serving as designers, the College felt a need to train designers early on, and put effort into educating Japanese designers.Pattern paper of draping (1958)Bunka Fashion CollegePostwar Japanese fashion and influences from outside JapanDuring the occupation after the Second World War, American fashion and culture flowed into Japan. Young women adopted made-over dresses with a military look, using shoulder pads with blouses and sweaters. Soon after it came back into publication, Soen gave extensive coverage to these American styles, and the College studied these new lines. In 1947, a new designer, Christian Dior, made a spectacular debut in Paris, and Parisian fashion became the focus of global attention—a new look with gentle shoulder lines and long, flowing flared skirts. News from Paris also became an important source for fashion designs.A lecture of the technical training by Pierre Cardin, 1958/1958, From the collection of: Bunka Fashion CollegeShow lessRead moreIn 1953, as part of the events celebrating the 30th anniversary of the College’s founding, Christian Dior and his entourage were invited to Japan, and fashion shows were held in Tokyo, Nagoya, Kyoto, and Osaka. The Paris fashions displayed at the shows caused excitement throughout Japanese society, extending far beyond the fashion world. Afterwards many other designers came to Japan and held shows at the College, allowing students to see and study top shows from abroad when they were studying.Class scene (1957/1957)Bunka Fashion CollegeAiming to become the world’s top designersThe first male students entered the College in 1957. The fact that 23 of 7,000 new students were men made the headlines. The head of the college, Seijiro Endo, expressed the following sentiment: “The world’s top designers and pattern cutters are men. It is my hope that you become active at the forefront as teachers and designers.” Many of the male students were aspiring designers, and are said to have clearly stated on their applications that they wanted to make lifelong careers as designers. Kenzo Takada and Mitsuhiro Matsuda, who were male students who entered the College the following year, and many others thereafter went on to become designers active in global fashion.Prospectus (1955)Bunka Fashion CollegeNew curriculums for professional training in fashionDemand for new curriculums arose as more professional education became necessary to train designers for the field of fashion. So, in 1951, the College launched design courses. Courses were created, with first-rate teachers brought in from each field, to study new ways of making clothes by working from the design concept on up. The fashion industry entered the age of prêt-à-porter in the 1970s, against a backdrop of mass production and consumption. The College also underwent its second education reform. In 1976, with changes to the legislative framework for specialized training colleges, the College developed a three-pillared education policy that took into greater consideration new forms of professional training in fashion.Hat department class (1971/1971)Bunka Fashion CollegeFashion Creation courses are programs that teach general fashion knowledge and skills. Fashion Technology courses teach specialized knowledge and skills in fields that manufacture fashion products, with the aim of training students to work in the apparel industry. Fashion Marketing and Distribution courses train students to be able to work with distribution channels in the industry. Fashion Accessories and Textiles courses were added in 1983, and continue to the present day.Photo of graduated students (1977)Bunka Fashion CollegeJapanese designers go out into the worldIn the 1970s, a growing number of Japanese travelled to Paris, which was the mecca of fashion, including many graduates from Bunka Fashion College, who worked hard in Paris in the midst of harsh social circumstances. Of them, Kenzo Takada (fashion design) became one of the most well-known Japanese at the time. He opened a store in the key Fashion district, and became a great success, on a par with Yves Saint Laurent and Sonia Rykiel.Fashion Show (1979/1979)Bunka Fashion CollegeThe fashion show, “Ten Designers on the World Stage,” celebrating the 60th anniversary of the College’s founding, was held by graduates for the opening of Endo Memorial Hall. The brand names of each designer shone like neon on the stage, and the brightly colored clothes of Kenzo Takada were a great success. Yutaka Hasegawa, Tadayomi Sakaide, Norio Suzuki, Mitsuhiro Matsuda (Nicole), Yohji Yamamoto (Yohji Yamamoto), Hiroko Koshino (Hiroko Koshino), Junko Koshino (Junko Koshino), Meiko Kitahara (Mine May), and Isao Kaneko (Pink House) each presented marvelous shows. These were a great inspiration for students at the College, who looked up to these graduates of their school.Contest Fashion Show (2016)Bunka Fashion CollegeStars born thanks to Soen Award, a gateway to success for new designersIn 1956, the Soen Award was established in celebration of the 20th anniversary of the magazine Soen. Created with the aim of fostering new designers, it was conceived as a gateway to success that would send new young talent into the fashion world.Advertisement of Soen (1956/1956)Bunka Fashion CollegeJurors consisted of a veritable who’s who of the fashion world at the time, including Bunka Fashion College teachers. An air of excitement filled the jury venue as fashion design underwent serious scrutiny, with questions such as “How should clothes be made to reflect the mood of the times?” and “What does it mean to create the clothes for the future?” All students attempted to win the Soen Award, and the number of challengers has increased year by year. The fact that Bunka Fashion College design students win year after year serves as a wonderful incentive for fellow classmates aiming to become professional designers.Prize-winning productions for Soen Fashon Contest in the past (1968) by Junko Koshino, Kenzo Takada, Tokio Kumagai, Yohji YamamotoBunka Fashion CollegeClass scene (2012/2012)Bunka Fashion CollegeJapanese fashion draws global attentionIn 2015, Bunka Fashion College was ranked second in the world in the Global Ranking of Fashion Schools published by UK fashion information website The Business of Fashion. The fact that it receives such high acclaim from outside Japan demonstrates the global industry's confidence in Bunka Fashion College’s history and educational policies, as well as high expectations for its future.Fashion ShowBunka Fashion CollegeNew fashion questSince its foundation, Bunka Fashion College has worked closely with the fashion industry as a central actor in Japanese fashion education, and developed together with the industry. As a leader in Japanese fashion education, it explores new forms of fashion that adapt to the times, engaging in joint research with companies and participating in collaborative initiatives that involve industry, government, and academia. Japanese fashion will continue to evolve and produce creators capable of performing on the global stage as a result of Bunka Fashion College continuing to hone students’ individuality and fashion sense, and ensuring that they acquire the knowledge and skills required to compete at an international level.Credits: All mediaThe story featured may in some cases have been created by an independent third party and may not always represent the views of the institutions, listed below, who have supplied the content.Bunka Fashion CollegeStories from Bunka Fashion CollegeOnline ExhibitCreative Creations by Students at Bunka Fashion CollegeBunka Fashion CollegeOnline ExhibitWhere fashion is bornBunka Fashion CollegeOnline ExhibitBunka Fashion College Fashion showsBunka Fashion CollegeExplore moreRelated themeWe Wear CultureThe stories behind what we wearView theme ayumi_7Bunka Fashion CollegeJapan’s first fashion school opensThe beginnings of Bunka Fashion College can be traced back to 1919, around the time of the end of the First World War. It started with Isaburo Namiki opening a small establishment called Namiki Women's and Children's Dressmaking Shop, which included a school for women's and children's dressmaking, in Aoyama, Akasaka-ku, Tokyo. After working many years as a tailor of women’s and children’s clothing, Namiki struck out on his own and opened this sewing school. But the sudden popularity of children’s clothing meant that there were not enough skilled sewers to meet demand. Namiki paved the way for the teaching of dressmaking, believing that it should be taught in a shorter period of time, and as a basic part of the skills of a housewife, rather than by initiating people into the art of dressmaking through long-term apprenticeships. ayumi_7Bunka Fashion College ayumi_7Bunka Fashion College ayumi_7Bunka Fashion College ayumi_7Bunka Fashion College ayumi_7Bunka Fashion College ayumi_7Bunka Fashion College Japan’s first fashion school opensThe beginnings of Bunka Fashion College can be traced back to 1919, around the time of the end of the First World War. It started with Isaburo Namiki opening a small establishment called Namiki Women's and Children's Dressmaking Shop, which included a school for women's and children's dressmaking, in Aoyama, Akasaka-ku, Tokyo. After working many years as a tailor of women’s and children’s clothing, Namiki struck out on his own and opened this sewing school. But the sudden popularity of children’s clothing meant that there were not enough skilled sewers to meet demand. Namiki paved the way for the teaching of dressmaking, believing that it should be taught in a shorter period of time, and as a basic part of the skills of a housewife, rather than by initiating people into the art of dressmaking through long-term apprenticeships. Japan’s first fashion school opensThe beginnings of Bunka Fashion College can be traced back to 1919, around the time of the end of the First World War. It started with Isaburo Namiki opening a small establishment called Namiki Women's and Children's Dressmaking Shop, which included a school for women's and children's dressmaking, in Aoyama, Akasaka-ku, Tokyo. After working many years as a tailor of women’s and children’s clothing, Namiki struck out on his own and opened this sewing school. But the sudden popularity of children’s clothing meant that there were not enough skilled sewers to meet demand. Namiki paved the way for the teaching of dressmaking, believing that it should be taught in a shorter period of time, and as a basic part of the skills of a housewife, rather than by initiating people into the art of dressmaking through long-term apprenticeships. Japan’s first fashion school opens Japan’s first fashion school opens The beginnings of Bunka Fashion College can be traced back to 1919, around the time of the end of the First World War. It started with Isaburo Namiki opening a small establishment called Namiki Women's and Children's Dressmaking Shop, which included a school for women's and children's dressmaking, in Aoyama, Akasaka-ku, Tokyo. After working many years as a tailor of women’s and children’s clothing, Namiki struck out on his own and opened this sewing school. But the sudden popularity of children’s clothing meant that there were not enough skilled sewers to meet demand. Namiki paved the way for the teaching of dressmaking, believing that it should be taught in a shorter period of time, and as a basic part of the skills of a housewife, rather than by initiating people into the art of dressmaking through long-term apprenticeships. The beginnings of Bunka Fashion College can be traced back to 1919, around the time of the end of the First World War. It started with Isaburo Namiki opening a small establishment called Namiki Women's and Children's Dressmaking Shop, which included a school for women's and children's dressmaking, in Aoyama, Akasaka-ku, Tokyo. After working many years as a tailor of women’s and children’s clothing, Namiki struck out on his own and opened this sewing school. But the sudden popularity of children’s clothing meant that there were not enough skilled sewers to meet demand. Namiki paved the way for the teaching of dressmaking, believing that it should be taught in a shorter period of time, and as a basic part of the skills of a housewife, rather than by initiating people into the art of dressmaking through long-term apprenticeships. Flag of Bunka Fashion College (1919/1919)Bunka Fashion CollegeReforming Japanese fashionSeijiro Endo, who was a salesman at a sewing machine company, was shocked at the fact that housewives were failing to take advantage of the sewing machine because of their lack of knowledge of how to make Western clothes, and felt the establishment of an institution that would teach appropriate dressmaking was urgently needed. Endo met Namiki, and the two men were in complete agreement about reforming Japanese fashion. Endo envisioned a time in the future when fashion in Japan would change from traditional Japanese clothing to Western clothing. Flag of Bunka Fashion College (1919/1919)Bunka Fashion College Flag of Bunka Fashion College (1919/1919)Bunka Fashion College Flag of Bunka Fashion College (1919/1919)Bunka Fashion College Flag of Bunka Fashion College (1919/1919)Bunka Fashion College Flag of Bunka Fashion College (1919/1919)Bunka Fashion College Flag of Bunka Fashion College (1919/1919)Bunka Fashion College Flag of Bunka Fashion College (1919/1919)Bunka Fashion College Reforming Japanese fashionSeijiro Endo, who was a salesman at a sewing machine company, was shocked at the fact that housewives were failing to take advantage of the sewing machine because of their lack of knowledge of how to make Western clothes, and felt the establishment of an institution that would teach appropriate dressmaking was urgently needed. Endo met Namiki, and the two men were in complete agreement about reforming Japanese fashion. Endo envisioned a time in the future when fashion in Japan would change from traditional Japanese clothing to Western clothing. Reforming Japanese fashionSeijiro Endo, who was a salesman at a sewing machine company, was shocked at the fact that housewives were failing to take advantage of the sewing machine because of their lack of knowledge of how to make Western clothes, and felt the establishment of an institution that would teach appropriate dressmaking was urgently needed. Endo met Namiki, and the two men were in complete agreement about reforming Japanese fashion. Endo envisioned a time in the future when fashion in Japan would change from traditional Japanese clothing to Western clothing. Reforming Japanese fashionSeijiro Endo, who was a salesman at a sewing machine company, was shocked at the fact that housewives were failing to take advantage of the sewing machine because of their lack of knowledge of how to make Western clothes, and felt the establishment of an institution that would teach appropriate dressmaking was urgently needed. Endo met Namiki, and the two men were in complete agreement about reforming Japanese fashion. Endo envisioned a time in the future when fashion in Japan would change from traditional Japanese clothing to Western clothing. Reforming Japanese fashionSeijiro Endo, who was a salesman at a sewing machine company, was shocked at the fact that housewives were failing to take advantage of the sewing machine because of their lack of knowledge of how to make Western clothes, and felt the establishment of an institution that would teach appropriate dressmaking was urgently needed. Endo met Namiki, and the two men were in complete agreement about reforming Japanese fashion. Endo envisioned a time in the future when fashion in Japan would change from traditional Japanese clothing to Western clothing. Reforming Japanese fashionSeijiro Endo, who was a salesman at a sewing machine company, was shocked at the fact that housewives were failing to take advantage of the sewing machine because of their lack of knowledge of how to make Western clothes, and felt the establishment of an institution that would teach appropriate dressmaking was urgently needed. Endo met Namiki, and the two men were in complete agreement about reforming Japanese fashion. Endo envisioned a time in the future when fashion in Japan would change from traditional Japanese clothing to Western clothing. Reforming Japanese fashionSeijiro Endo, who was a salesman at a sewing machine company, was shocked at the fact that housewives were failing to take advantage of the sewing machine because of their lack of knowledge of how to make Western clothes, and felt the establishment of an institution that would teach appropriate dressmaking was urgently needed. Endo met Namiki, and the two men were in complete agreement about reforming Japanese fashion. Endo envisioned a time in the future when fashion in Japan would change from traditional Japanese clothing to Western clothing. Bunka fashion College (1955-10)Bunka Fashion CollegeBunka Sewing SchoolIn 1922, the shop became the Bunka Sewing School, located in a three-story timber structure at Fukuro-machi, Ushigome, Tokyo. It started with four students and seven apprentices. The following year, the school was renamed in accordance with a Tokyo ordinance and began a bright new future as Bunka Sewing School for Women. Bunka fashion College (1955-10)Bunka Fashion College Bunka fashion College (1955-10)Bunka Fashion College Bunka fashion College (1955-10)Bunka Fashion College Bunka fashion College (1955-10)Bunka Fashion College Bunka fashion College (1955-10)Bunka Fashion College Bunka fashion College (1955-10)Bunka Fashion College Bunka fashion College (1955-10)Bunka Fashion College Bunka Sewing SchoolIn 1922, the shop became the Bunka Sewing School, located in a three-story timber structure at Fukuro-machi, Ushigome, Tokyo. It started with four students and seven apprentices. The following year, the school was renamed in accordance with a Tokyo ordinance and began a bright new future as Bunka Sewing School for Women. Bunka Sewing SchoolIn 1922, the shop became the Bunka Sewing School, located in a three-story timber structure at Fukuro-machi, Ushigome, Tokyo. It started with four students and seven apprentices. The following year, the school was renamed in accordance with a Tokyo ordinance and began a bright new future as Bunka Sewing School for Women. Bunka Sewing SchoolIn 1922, the shop became the Bunka Sewing School, located in a three-story timber structure at Fukuro-machi, Ushigome, Tokyo. It started with four students and seven apprentices. The following year, the school was renamed in accordance with a Tokyo ordinance and began a bright new future as Bunka Sewing School for Women. Bunka Sewing SchoolIn 1922, the shop became the Bunka Sewing School, located in a three-story timber structure at Fukuro-machi, Ushigome, Tokyo. It started with four students and seven apprentices. The following year, the school was renamed in accordance with a Tokyo ordinance and began a bright new future as Bunka Sewing School for Women. Bunka Sewing SchoolIn 1922, the shop became the Bunka Sewing School, located in a three-story timber structure at Fukuro-machi, Ushigome, Tokyo. It started with four students and seven apprentices. The following year, the school was renamed in accordance with a Tokyo ordinance and began a bright new future as Bunka Sewing School for Women. Bunka Sewing SchoolIn 1922, the shop became the Bunka Sewing School, located in a three-story timber structure at Fukuro-machi, Ushigome, Tokyo. It started with four students and seven apprentices. The following year, the school was renamed in accordance with a Tokyo ordinance and began a bright new future as Bunka Sewing School for Women. Isaburo Namiki, founder of the college., 1877/1877, From the collection of: Bunka Fashion CollegeShow lessRead more Isaburo Namiki, founder of the college., 1877/1877, From the collection of: Bunka Fashion CollegeShow lessRead more Isaburo Namiki, founder of the college., 1877/1877, From the collection of: Bunka Fashion CollegeShow lessRead more Isaburo Namiki, founder of the college., 1877/1877, From the collection of: Bunka Fashion College Isaburo Namiki, founder of the college., 1877/1877, From the collection of: Bunka Fashion College Show lessRead more Show lessRead more Isaburo NamikiNamiki was born in 1887 in Saitama Prefecture. He showed an unusually keen interest in sewing from an early age, and in 1903, at the introduction of Sekiko Toita, he went to study with Ijima Fujin Yofuku Ten (“Ijima Women’s Clothier”) a third-generation tailor dating from the Meiji Era. Over the course of 18 years, he attained profound skill and experience as a tailor of women’s and children’s clothing. In 1919, he opened his own establishment, Namiki Women's and Children's Dressmaking Shop, which included a school for women's and children's dressmaking. After working as a teacher in the Western clothing department of Toita Saiho Jogakko (“Toita Girls’ Sewing School”) and Shinga Mishin Saiho Jogakko (“Singer Sewing Machine Girls' School”), in 1922, he established the Bunka Sewing School, and served as its head. At the dawn of the age of dressmaking in Japan, he devised a teaching system utilizing patterns, establishing a foundation for fashion education. He died in 1933 at the age of 46. Isaburo NamikiNamiki was born in 1887 in Saitama Prefecture. He showed an unusually keen interest in sewing from an early age, and in 1903, at the introduction of Sekiko Toita, he went to study with Ijima Fujin Yofuku Ten (“Ijima Women’s Clothier”) a third-generation tailor dating from the Meiji Era. Over the course of 18 years, he attained profound skill and experience as a tailor of women’s and children’s clothing. In 1919, he opened his own establishment, Namiki Women's and Children's Dressmaking Shop, which included a school for women's and children's dressmaking. After working as a teacher in the Western clothing department of Toita Saiho Jogakko (“Toita Girls’ Sewing School”) and Shinga Mishin Saiho Jogakko (“Singer Sewing Machine Girls' School”), in 1922, he established the Bunka Sewing School, and served as its head. At the dawn of the age of dressmaking in Japan, he devised a teaching system utilizing patterns, establishing a foundation for fashion education. He died in 1933 at the age of 46. Seijiro Endo, founder of the college., 1894/1894, From the collection of: Bunka Fashion CollegeShow lessRead more Seijiro Endo, founder of the college., 1894/1894, From the collection of: Bunka Fashion CollegeShow lessRead more Seijiro Endo, founder of the college., 1894/1894, From the collection of: Bunka Fashion CollegeShow lessRead more Seijiro Endo, founder of the college., 1894/1894, From the collection of: Bunka Fashion College Seijiro Endo, founder of the college., 1894/1894, From the collection of: Bunka Fashion College Show lessRead more Show lessRead more Seijiro EndoEndo was born in 1894 in Iwate Prefecture. In 1917, he went to Tokyo, worked as an interpreter for visitors to Japan. Interested in English he joined Singer Sewing Machine Company the same year, and achieved tremendous success as a salesman. In 1919, he met Namiki Isaburo, and while helping him to manage his school, he came to see fashion education as his life’s mission, and left Singer, devoting himself to the school’s administration. He recruited students and worked on PR, expanded publishing projects such as Fukuso Bunka (“Fashion Culture”), Soen, and Bunka Fukuso Koza (“Bunka Fashion Course”), and fostered the Bunka Fashion College Network, contributing to the organization and prosperity of the College. He died in 1960 at the age of 66. Seijiro EndoEndo was born in 1894 in Iwate Prefecture. In 1917, he went to Tokyo, worked as an interpreter for visitors to Japan. Interested in English he joined Singer Sewing Machine Company the same year, and achieved tremendous success as a salesman. In 1919, he met Namiki Isaburo, and while helping him to manage his school, he came to see fashion education as his life’s mission, and left Singer, devoting himself to the school’s administration. He recruited students and worked on PR, expanded publishing projects such as Fukuso Bunka (“Fashion Culture”), Soen, and Bunka Fukuso Koza (“Bunka Fashion Course”), and fostered the Bunka Fashion College Network, contributing to the organization and prosperity of the College. He died in 1960 at the age of 66. Prototype of the founding era (1923)Bunka Fashion CollegeDesign of patternsThis pattern dates back to when Isaburo Namiki founded the school, devised according to his own unique system for teaching sewing skills. Incorporating techniques from cutting experts, he made patterns that expressed body dimensions and characteristics in two-dimensional form. Dress patterns made on this basis could be easily applied to a large range of garments. This thinking has been passed down to the present, with patterns being researched and produced for each period in order to match changing body shapes. Prototype of the founding era (1923)Bunka Fashion College Prototype of the founding era (1923)Bunka Fashion College Prototype of the founding era (1923)Bunka Fashion College Prototype of the founding era (1923)Bunka Fashion College Prototype of the founding era (1923)Bunka Fashion College Prototype of the founding era (1923)Bunka Fashion College Design of patternsThis pattern dates back to when Isaburo Namiki founded the school, devised according to his own unique system for teaching sewing skills. Incorporating techniques from cutting experts, he made patterns that expressed body dimensions and characteristics in two-dimensional form. Dress patterns made on this basis could be easily applied to a large range of garments. This thinking has been passed down to the present, with patterns being researched and produced for each period in order to match changing body shapes. Design of patternsThis pattern dates back to when Isaburo Namiki founded the school, devised according to his own unique system for teaching sewing skills. Incorporating techniques from cutting experts, he made patterns that expressed body dimensions and characteristics in two-dimensional form. Dress patterns made on this basis could be easily applied to a large range of garments. This thinking has been passed down to the present, with patterns being researched and produced for each period in order to match changing body shapes. Design of patterns Design of patterns This pattern dates back to when Isaburo Namiki founded the school, devised according to his own unique system for teaching sewing skills. Incorporating techniques from cutting experts, he made patterns that expressed body dimensions and characteristics in two-dimensional form. Dress patterns made on this basis could be easily applied to a large range of garments. This thinking has been passed down to the present, with patterns being researched and produced for each period in order to match changing body shapes. This pattern dates back to when Isaburo Namiki founded the school, devised according to his own unique system for teaching sewing skills. Incorporating techniques from cutting experts, he made patterns that expressed body dimensions and characteristics in two-dimensional form. Dress patterns made on this basis could be easily applied to a large range of garments. This thinking has been passed down to the present, with patterns being researched and produced for each period in order to match changing body shapes. Modern Girl (1927/1927)Bunka Fashion CollegeTeachers were fashion trendsetters!Women wearing a new style—short skirts with low waistlines and bobbed hair and cloches—were called ”modern girls” or simply “moga.” Although Kimonos were still common, people were gradually becoming accustomed to Western clothing, and teachers sporting the “moga” style became fashion trendsetters for their students. Modern Girl (1927/1927)Bunka Fashion College Modern Girl (1927/1927)Bunka Fashion College Modern Girl (1927/1927)Bunka Fashion College Modern Girl (1927/1927)Bunka Fashion College Modern Girl (1927/1927)Bunka Fashion College Modern Girl (1927/1927)Bunka Fashion College Teachers were fashion trendsetters!Women wearing a new style—short skirts with low waistlines and bobbed hair and cloches—were called ”modern girls” or simply “moga.” Although Kimonos were still common, people were gradually becoming accustomed to Western clothing, and teachers sporting the “moga” style became fashion trendsetters for their students. Teachers were fashion trendsetters!Women wearing a new style—short skirts with low waistlines and bobbed hair and cloches—were called ”modern girls” or simply “moga.” Although Kimonos were still common, people were gradually becoming accustomed to Western clothing, and teachers sporting the “moga” style became fashion trendsetters for their students. Teachers were fashion trendsetters! Teachers were fashion trendsetters! Women wearing a new style—short skirts with low waistlines and bobbed hair and cloches—were called ”modern girls” or simply “moga.” Although Kimonos were still common, people were gradually becoming accustomed to Western clothing, and teachers sporting the “moga” style became fashion trendsetters for their students. Women wearing a new style—short skirts with low waistlines and bobbed hair and cloches—were called ”modern girls” or simply “moga.” Although Kimonos were still common, people were gradually becoming accustomed to Western clothing, and teachers sporting the “moga” style became fashion trendsetters for their students. First issue of Soen magazine. (1946/1946)Bunka Fashion CollegePublishing DepartmentIn 1934, the Publishing Department was established in the Bunka Sewing School for Women, the precursor of today’s Bunka Publishing Bureau. In addition to the fact that publishing books that could be used as textbooks was a more effective way of educating the increasing number of students, the school also aimed to popularize fashion education and enhance fashion culture. First issue of Soen magazine. (1946/1946)Bunka Fashion College First issue of Soen magazine. (1946/1946)Bunka Fashion College First issue of Soen magazine. (1946/1946)Bunka Fashion College First issue of Soen magazine. (1946/1946)Bunka Fashion College First issue of Soen magazine. (1946/1946)Bunka Fashion College First issue of Soen magazine. (1946/1946)Bunka Fashion College Publishing DepartmentIn 1934, the Publishing Department was established in the Bunka Sewing School for Women, the precursor of today’s Bunka Publishing Bureau. In addition to the fact that publishing books that could be used as textbooks was a more effective way of educating the increasing number of students, the school also aimed to popularize fashion education and enhance fashion culture. Publishing DepartmentIn 1934, the Publishing Department was established in the Bunka Sewing School for Women, the precursor of today’s Bunka Publishing Bureau. In addition to the fact that publishing books that could be used as textbooks was a more effective way of educating the increasing number of students, the school also aimed to popularize fashion education and enhance fashion culture. Publishing Department Publishing Department In 1934, the Publishing Department was established in the Bunka Sewing School for Women, the precursor of today’s Bunka Publishing Bureau. In addition to the fact that publishing books that could be used as textbooks was a more effective way of educating the increasing number of students, the school also aimed to popularize fashion education and enhance fashion culture. In 1934, the Publishing Department was established in the Bunka Sewing School for Women, the precursor of today’s Bunka Publishing Bureau. In addition to the fact that publishing books that could be used as textbooks was a more effective way of educating the increasing number of students, the school also aimed to popularize fashion education and enhance fashion culture. Dressmaking Lecture, 1935/1935, From the collection of: Bunka Fashion CollegeShow lessRead moreAll six volumes of Bunka Yosai Koza (“Bunka Dressmaking Course”) were completed in 1935, after a year of work. The culmination of years of teaching traditional fashion, these volumes also came to be used in correspondence courses, and raised the school’s reputation to the highest level in the industry. Dressmaking Lecture, 1935/1935, From the collection of: Bunka Fashion CollegeShow lessRead more Dressmaking Lecture, 1935/1935, From the collection of: Bunka Fashion CollegeShow lessRead more Dressmaking Lecture, 1935/1935, From the collection of: Bunka Fashion College Dressmaking Lecture, 1935/1935, From the collection of: Bunka Fashion College Show lessRead more Show lessRead more All six volumes of Bunka Yosai Koza (“Bunka Dressmaking Course”) were completed in 1935, after a year of work. The culmination of years of teaching traditional fashion, these volumes also came to be used in correspondence courses, and raised the school’s reputation to the highest level in the industry. All six volumes of Bunka Yosai Koza (“Bunka Dressmaking Course”) were completed in 1935, after a year of work. The culmination of years of teaching traditional fashion, these volumes also came to be used in correspondence courses, and raised the school’s reputation to the highest level in the industry. Molding Knit WearBunka Fashion CollegeWestern clothing and dressmaking skillsIt became commonplace for Japanese to wear Western clothing after the First World War. Stores selling clothes for women and children could be found throughout town, and demand for children’s clothing in particular increased rapidly. As a result, there was a lack of skilled dressmakers, and dressmaking schools began to pop up everywhere. Bunka Fashion College became Japan’s first full-fledged, accredited dressmaking trade school in 1923, right around the time when the wearing of Western clothing in Japan was becoming more popular than ever. There was also a marked increase in women wearing Western clothing after the Great Kanto earthquake, which struck in September of the same year, and highlighted the need for improvements in clothing. It was the golden age of the Western clothing industry in Japan, and saw an increase in the number of dressmaking schoo Molding Knit WearBunka Fashion College Molding Knit WearBunka Fashion College Molding Knit WearBunka Fashion College Molding Knit WearBunka Fashion College Molding Knit WearBunka Fashion College Molding Knit WearBunka Fashion College Western clothing and dressmaking skillsIt became commonplace for Japanese to wear Western clothing after the First World War. Stores selling clothes for women and children could be found throughout town, and demand for children’s clothing in particular increased rapidly. As a result, there was a lack of skilled dressmakers, and dressmaking schools began to pop up everywhere. Bunka Fashion College became Japan’s first full-fledged, accredited dressmaking trade school in 1923, right around the time when the wearing of Western clothing in Japan was becoming more popular than ever. There was also a marked increase in women wearing Western clothing after the Great Kanto earthquake, which struck in September of the same year, and highlighted the need for improvements in clothing. It was the golden age of the Western clothing industry in Japan, and saw an increase in the number of dressmaking schoo Western clothing and dressmaking skillsIt became commonplace for Japanese to wear Western clothing after the First World War. Stores selling clothes for women and children could be found throughout town, and demand for children’s clothing in particular increased rapidly. As a result, there was a lack of skilled dressmakers, and dressmaking schools began to pop up everywhere. Bunka Fashion College became Japan’s first full-fledged, accredited dressmaking trade school in 1923, right around the time when the wearing of Western clothing in Japan was becoming more popular than ever. There was also a marked increase in women wearing Western clothing after the Great Kanto earthquake, which struck in September of the same year, and highlighted the need for improvements in clothing. It was the golden age of the Western clothing industry in Japan, and saw an increase in the number of dressmaking schoo Western clothing and dressmaking skills Western clothing and dressmaking skills It became commonplace for Japanese to wear Western clothing after the First World War. Stores selling clothes for women and children could be found throughout town, and demand for children’s clothing in particular increased rapidly. As a result, there was a lack of skilled dressmakers, and dressmaking schools began to pop up everywhere. Bunka Fashion College became Japan’s first full-fledged, accredited dressmaking trade school in 1923, right around the time when the wearing of Western clothing in Japan was becoming more popular than ever. There was also a marked increase in women wearing Western clothing after the Great Kanto earthquake, which struck in September of the same year, and highlighted the need for improvements in clothing. It was the golden age of the Western clothing industry in Japan, and saw an increase in the number of dressmaking schoo It became commonplace for Japanese to wear Western clothing after the First World War. Stores selling clothes for women and children could be found throughout town, and demand for children’s clothing in particular increased rapidly. As a result, there was a lack of skilled dressmakers, and dressmaking schools began to pop up everywhere. Bunka Fashion College became Japan’s first full-fledged, accredited dressmaking trade school in 1923, right around the time when the wearing of Western clothing in Japan was becoming more popular than ever. There was also a marked increase in women wearing Western clothing after the Great Kanto earthquake, which struck in September of the same year, and highlighted the need for improvements in clothing. It was the golden age of the Western clothing industry in Japan, and saw an increase in the number of dressmaking schoo Student Union (1950/1950)Bunka Fashion CollegeThe Showa Era, beginning in 1926, became the age of technology. The technological wellspring of Bunka Fashion College was the artisan’s skills the school’s founder, Isaburo Namiki, had acquired working at clothing stores. Many teachers started out as tailors at long-established stores, and created practical courses that respected and passed on these artisanal skills, initiating students into the secrets of the trade in the classroom. And, after the Second World War, information from Europe and the U.S. became freely available, marking the beginning of an upbeat age full of new, exciting things and experiences. Graphic designers became more prominent, and there was also growing demand for professional training in order to foster designers in the field of fashion design. Student Union (1950/1950)Bunka Fashion College Student Union (1950/1950)Bunka Fashion College Student Union (1950/1950)Bunka Fashion College Student Union (1950/1950)Bunka Fashion College Student Union (1950/1950)Bunka Fashion College Student Union (1950/1950)Bunka Fashion College Student Union (1950/1950)Bunka Fashion College The Showa Era, beginning in 1926, became the age of technology. The technological wellspring of Bunka Fashion College was the artisan’s skills the school’s founder, Isaburo Namiki, had acquired working at clothing stores. Many teachers started out as tailors at long-established stores, and created practical courses that respected and passed on these artisanal skills, initiating students into the secrets of the trade in the classroom. And, after the Second World War, information from Europe and the U.S. became freely available, marking the beginning of an upbeat age full of new, exciting things and experiences. Graphic designers became more prominent, and there was also growing demand for professional training in order to foster designers in the field of fashion design. The Showa Era, beginning in 1926, became the age of technology. The technological wellspring of Bunka Fashion College was the artisan’s skills the school’s founder, Isaburo Namiki, had acquired working at clothing stores. Many teachers started out as tailors at long-established stores, and created practical courses that respected and passed on these artisanal skills, initiating students into the secrets of the trade in the classroom. And, after the Second World War, information from Europe and the U.S. became freely available, marking the beginning of an upbeat age full of new, exciting things and experiences. Graphic designers became more prominent, and there was also growing demand for professional training in order to foster designers in the field of fashion design. The Showa Era, beginning in 1926, became the age of technology. The technological wellspring of Bunka Fashion College was the artisan’s skills the school’s founder, Isaburo Namiki, had acquired working at clothing stores. Many teachers started out as tailors at long-established stores, and created practical courses that respected and passed on these artisanal skills, initiating students into the secrets of the trade in the classroom. And, after the Second World War, information from Europe and the U.S. became freely available, marking the beginning of an upbeat age full of new, exciting things and experiences. Graphic designers became more prominent, and there was also growing demand for professional training in order to foster designers in the field of fashion design. The Showa Era, beginning in 1926, became the age of technology. The technological wellspring of Bunka Fashion College was the artisan’s skills the school’s founder, Isaburo Namiki, had acquired working at clothing stores. Many teachers started out as tailors at long-established stores, and created practical courses that respected and passed on these artisanal skills, initiating students into the secrets of the trade in the classroom. And, after the Second World War, information from Europe and the U.S. became freely available, marking the beginning of an upbeat age full of new, exciting things and experiences. Graphic designers became more prominent, and there was also growing demand for professional training in order to foster designers in the field of fashion design. The Showa Era, beginning in 1926, became the age of technology. The technological wellspring of Bunka Fashion College was the artisan’s skills the school’s founder, Isaburo Namiki, had acquired working at clothing stores. Many teachers started out as tailors at long-established stores, and created practical courses that respected and passed on these artisanal skills, initiating students into the secrets of the trade in the classroom. And, after the Second World War, information from Europe and the U.S. became freely available, marking the beginning of an upbeat age full of new, exciting things and experiences. Graphic designers became more prominent, and there was also growing demand for professional training in order to foster designers in the field of fashion design. The Showa Era, beginning in 1926, became the age of technology. The technological wellspring of Bunka Fashion College was the artisan’s skills the school’s founder, Isaburo Namiki, had acquired working at clothing stores. Many teachers started out as tailors at long-established stores, and created practical courses that respected and passed on these artisanal skills, initiating students into the secrets of the trade in the classroom. And, after the Second World War, information from Europe and the U.S. became freely available, marking the beginning of an upbeat age full of new, exciting things and experiences. Graphic designers became more prominent, and there was also growing demand for professional training in order to foster designers in the field of fashion design. Class Scene (1951/1951)Bunka Fashion CollegeIn 1951, design courses were launched. At the time, with teachers also serving as designers, the College felt a need to train designers early on, and put effort into educating Japanese designers. Class Scene (1951/1951)Bunka Fashion College Class Scene (1951/1951)Bunka Fashion College Class Scene (1951/1951)Bunka Fashion College Class Scene (1951/1951)Bunka Fashion College Class Scene (1951/1951)Bunka Fashion College Class Scene (1951/1951)Bunka Fashion College Class Scene (1951/1951)Bunka Fashion College In 1951, design courses were launched. At the time, with teachers also serving as designers, the College felt a need to train designers early on, and put effort into educating Japanese designers. In 1951, design courses were launched. At the time, with teachers also serving as designers, the College felt a need to train designers early on, and put effort into educating Japanese designers. In 1951, design courses were launched. At the time, with teachers also serving as designers, the College felt a need to train designers early on, and put effort into educating Japanese designers. In 1951, design courses were launched. At the time, with teachers also serving as designers, the College felt a need to train designers early on, and put effort into educating Japanese designers. In 1951, design courses were launched. At the time, with teachers also serving as designers, the College felt a need to train designers early on, and put effort into educating Japanese designers. In 1951, design courses were launched. At the time, with teachers also serving as designers, the College felt a need to train designers early on, and put effort into educating Japanese designers. Pattern paper of draping (1958)Bunka Fashion CollegePostwar Japanese fashion and influences from outside JapanDuring the occupation after the Second World War, American fashion and culture flowed into Japan. Young women adopted made-over dresses with a military look, using shoulder pads with blouses and sweaters. Soon after it came back into publication, Soen gave extensive coverage to these American styles, and the College studied these new lines. In 1947, a new designer, Christian Dior, made a spectacular debut in Paris, and Parisian fashion became the focus of global attention—a new look with gentle shoulder lines and long, flowing flared skirts. News from Paris also became an important source for fashion designs. Pattern paper of draping (1958)Bunka Fashion College Pattern paper of draping (1958)Bunka Fashion College Pattern paper of draping (1958)Bunka Fashion College Pattern paper of draping (1958)Bunka Fashion College Pattern paper of draping (1958)Bunka Fashion College Pattern paper of draping (1958)Bunka Fashion College Postwar Japanese fashion and influences from outside JapanDuring the occupation after the Second World War, American fashion and culture flowed into Japan. Young women adopted made-over dresses with a military look, using shoulder pads with blouses and sweaters. Soon after it came back into publication, Soen gave extensive coverage to these American styles, and the College studied these new lines. In 1947, a new designer, Christian Dior, made a spectacular debut in Paris, and Parisian fashion became the focus of global attention—a new look with gentle shoulder lines and long, flowing flared skirts. News from Paris also became an important source for fashion designs. Postwar Japanese fashion and influences from outside JapanDuring the occupation after the Second World War, American fashion and culture flowed into Japan. Young women adopted made-over dresses with a military look, using shoulder pads with blouses and sweaters. Soon after it came back into publication, Soen gave extensive coverage to these American styles, and the College studied these new lines. In 1947, a new designer, Christian Dior, made a spectacular debut in Paris, and Parisian fashion became the focus of global attention—a new look with gentle shoulder lines and long, flowing flared skirts. News from Paris also became an important source for fashion designs. Postwar Japanese fashion and influences from outside Japan Postwar Japanese fashion and influences from outside Japan During the occupation after the Second World War, American fashion and culture flowed into Japan. Young women adopted made-over dresses with a military look, using shoulder pads with blouses and sweaters. Soon after it came back into publication, Soen gave extensive coverage to these American styles, and the College studied these new lines. In 1947, a new designer, Christian Dior, made a spectacular debut in Paris, and Parisian fashion became the focus of global attention—a new look with gentle shoulder lines and long, flowing flared skirts. News from Paris also became an important source for fashion designs. During the occupation after the Second World War, American fashion and culture flowed into Japan. Young women adopted made-over dresses with a military look, using shoulder pads with blouses and sweaters. Soon after it came back into publication, Soen gave extensive coverage to these American styles, and the College studied these new lines. In 1947, a new designer, Christian Dior, made a spectacular debut in Paris, and Parisian fashion became the focus of global attention—a new look with gentle shoulder lines and long, flowing flared skirts. News from Paris also became an important source for fashion designs. A lecture of the technical training by Pierre Cardin, 1958/1958, From the collection of: Bunka Fashion CollegeShow lessRead moreIn 1953, as part of the events celebrating the 30th anniversary of the College’s founding, Christian Dior and his entourage were invited to Japan, and fashion shows were held in Tokyo, Nagoya, Kyoto, and Osaka. The Paris fashions displayed at the shows caused excitement throughout Japanese society, extending far beyond the fashion world. Afterwards many other designers came to Japan and held shows at the College, allowing students to see and study top shows from abroad when they were studying. A lecture of the technical training by Pierre Cardin, 1958/1958, From the collection of: Bunka Fashion CollegeShow lessRead more A lecture of the technical training by Pierre Cardin, 1958/1958, From the collection of: Bunka Fashion CollegeShow lessRead more A lecture of the technical training by Pierre Cardin, 1958/1958, From the collection of: Bunka Fashion College A lecture of the technical training by Pierre Cardin, 1958/1958, From the collection of: Bunka Fashion College Show lessRead more Show lessRead more In 1953, as part of the events celebrating the 30th anniversary of the College’s founding, Christian Dior and his entourage were invited to Japan, and fashion shows were held in Tokyo, Nagoya, Kyoto, and Osaka. The Paris fashions displayed at the shows caused excitement throughout Japanese society, extending far beyond the fashion world. Afterwards many other designers came to Japan and held shows at the College, allowing students to see and study top shows from abroad when they were studying. In 1953, as part of the events celebrating the 30th anniversary of the College’s founding, Christian Dior and his entourage were invited to Japan, and fashion shows were held in Tokyo, Nagoya, Kyoto, and Osaka. The Paris fashions displayed at the shows caused excitement throughout Japanese society, extending far beyond the fashion world. Afterwards many other designers came to Japan and held shows at the College, allowing students to see and study top shows from abroad when they were studying. Class scene (1957/1957)Bunka Fashion CollegeAiming to become the world’s top designersThe first male students entered the College in 1957. The fact that 23 of 7,000 new students were men made the headlines. The head of the college, Seijiro Endo, expressed the following sentiment: “The world’s top designers and pattern cutters are men. It is my hope that you become active at the forefront as teachers and designers.” Many of the male students were aspiring designers, and are said to have clearly stated on their applications that they wanted to make lifelong careers as designers. Kenzo Takada and Mitsuhiro Matsuda, who were male students who entered the College the following year, and many others thereafter went on to become designers active in global fashion. Class scene (1957/1957)Bunka Fashion College Class scene (1957/1957)Bunka Fashion College Class scene (1957/1957)Bunka Fashion College Class scene (1957/1957)Bunka Fashion College Class scene (1957/1957)Bunka Fashion College Class scene (1957/1957)Bunka Fashion College Aiming to become the world’s top designersThe first male students entered the College in 1957. The fact that 23 of 7,000 new students were men made the headlines. The head of the college, Seijiro Endo, expressed the following sentiment: “The world’s top designers and pattern cutters are men. It is my hope that you become active at the forefront as teachers and designers.” Many of the male students were aspiring designers, and are said to have clearly stated on their applications that they wanted to make lifelong careers as designers. Kenzo Takada and Mitsuhiro Matsuda, who were male students who entered the College the following year, and many others thereafter went on to become designers active in global fashion. Aiming to become the world’s top designersThe first male students entered the College in 1957. The fact that 23 of 7,000 new students were men made the headlines. The head of the college, Seijiro Endo, expressed the following sentiment: “The world’s top designers and pattern cutters are men. It is my hope that you become active at the forefront as teachers and designers.” Many of the male students were aspiring designers, and are said to have clearly stated on their applications that they wanted to make lifelong careers as designers. Kenzo Takada and Mitsuhiro Matsuda, who were male students who entered the College the following year, and many others thereafter went on to become designers active in global fashion. Aiming to become the world’s top designers Aiming to become the world’s top designers The first male students entered the College in 1957. The fact that 23 of 7,000 new students were men made the headlines. The head of the college, Seijiro Endo, expressed the following sentiment: “The world’s top designers and pattern cutters are men. It is my hope that you become active at the forefront as teachers and designers.” Many of the male students were aspiring designers, and are said to have clearly stated on their applications that they wanted to make lifelong careers as designers. Kenzo Takada and Mitsuhiro Matsuda, who were male students who entered the College the following year, and many others thereafter went on to become designers active in global fashion. The first male students entered the College in 1957. The fact that 23 of 7,000 new students were men made the headlines. The head of the college, Seijiro Endo, expressed the following sentiment: “The world’s top designers and pattern cutters are men. It is my hope that you become active at the forefront as teachers and designers.” Many of the male students were aspiring designers, and are said to have clearly stated on their applications that they wanted to make lifelong careers as designers. Kenzo Takada and Mitsuhiro Matsuda, who were male students who entered the College the following year, and many others thereafter went on to become designers active in global fashion. Prospectus (1955)Bunka Fashion CollegeNew curriculums for professional training in fashionDemand for new curriculums arose as more professional education became necessary to train designers for the field of fashion. So, in 1951, the College launched design courses. Courses were created, with first-rate teachers brought in from each field, to study new ways of making clothes by working from the design concept on up. The fashion industry entered the age of prêt-à-porter in the 1970s, against a backdrop of mass production and consumption. The College also underwent its second education reform. In 1976, with changes to the legislative framework for specialized training colleges, the College developed a three-pillared education policy that took into greater consideration new forms of professional training in fashion. Prospectus (1955)Bunka Fashion College Prospectus (1955)Bunka Fashion College Prospectus (1955)Bunka Fashion College Prospectus (1955)Bunka Fashion College Prospectus (1955)Bunka Fashion College Prospectus (1955)Bunka Fashion College New curriculums for professional training in fashionDemand for new curriculums arose as more professional education became necessary to train designers for the field of fashion. So, in 1951, the College launched design courses. Courses were created, with first-rate teachers brought in from each field, to study new ways of making clothes by working from the design concept on up. The fashion industry entered the age of prêt-à-porter in the 1970s, against a backdrop of mass production and consumption. The College also underwent its second education reform. In 1976, with changes to the legislative framework for specialized training colleges, the College developed a three-pillared education policy that took into greater consideration new forms of professional training in fashion. New curriculums for professional training in fashionDemand for new curriculums arose as more professional education became necessary to train designers for the field of fashion. So, in 1951, the College launched design courses. Courses were created, with first-rate teachers brought in from each field, to study new ways of making clothes by working from the design concept on up. The fashion industry entered the age of prêt-à-porter in the 1970s, against a backdrop of mass production and consumption. The College also underwent its second education reform. In 1976, with changes to the legislative framework for specialized training colleges, the College developed a three-pillared education policy that took into greater consideration new forms of professional training in fashion. New curriculums for professional training in fashion New curriculums for professional training in fashion Demand for new curriculums arose as more professional education became necessary to train designers for the field of fashion. So, in 1951, the College launched design courses. Courses were created, with first-rate teachers brought in from each field, to study new ways of making clothes by working from the design concept on up. The fashion industry entered the age of prêt-à-porter in the 1970s, against a backdrop of mass production and consumption. The College also underwent its second education reform. In 1976, with changes to the legislative framework for specialized training colleges, the College developed a three-pillared education policy that took into greater consideration new forms of professional training in fashion. Demand for new curriculums arose as more professional education became necessary to train designers for the field of fashion. So, in 1951, the College launched design courses. Courses were created, with first-rate teachers brought in from each field, to study new ways of making clothes by working from the design concept on up. The fashion industry entered the age of prêt-à-porter in the 1970s, against a backdrop of mass production and consumption. The College also underwent its second education reform. In 1976, with changes to the legislative framework for specialized training colleges, the College developed a three-pillared education policy that took into greater consideration new forms of professional training in fashion. Hat department class (1971/1971)Bunka Fashion CollegeFashion Creation courses are programs that teach general fashion knowledge and skills. Fashion Technology courses teach specialized knowledge and skills in fields that manufacture fashion products, with the aim of training students to work in the apparel industry. Fashion Marketing and Distribution courses train students to be able to work with distribution channels in the industry. Fashion Accessories and Textiles courses were added in 1983, and continue to the present day. Hat department class (1971/1971)Bunka Fashion College Hat department class (1971/1971)Bunka Fashion College Hat department class (1971/1971)Bunka Fashion College Hat department class (1971/1971)Bunka Fashion College Hat department class (1971/1971)Bunka Fashion College Hat department class (1971/1971)Bunka Fashion College Hat department class (1971/1971)Bunka Fashion College Fashion Creation courses are programs that teach general fashion knowledge and skills. Fashion Technology courses teach specialized knowledge and skills in fields that manufacture fashion products, with the aim of training students to work in the apparel industry. Fashion Marketing and Distribution courses train students to be able to work with distribution channels in the industry. Fashion Accessories and Textiles courses were added in 1983, and continue to the present day. Fashion Creation courses are programs that teach general fashion knowledge and skills. Fashion Technology courses teach specialized knowledge and skills in fields that manufacture fashion products, with the aim of training students to work in the apparel industry. Fashion Marketing and Distribution courses train students to be able to work with distribution channels in the industry. Fashion Accessories and Textiles courses were added in 1983, and continue to the present day. Fashion Creation courses are programs that teach general fashion knowledge and skills. Fashion Technology courses teach specialized knowledge and skills in fields that manufacture fashion products, with the aim of training students to work in the apparel industry. Fashion Marketing and Distribution courses train students to be able to work with distribution channels in the industry. Fashion Accessories and Textiles courses were added in 1983, and continue to the present day. Fashion Creation courses are programs that teach general fashion knowledge and skills. Fashion Technology courses teach specialized knowledge and skills in fields that manufacture fashion products, with the aim of training students to work in the apparel industry. Fashion Marketing and Distribution courses train students to be able to work with distribution channels in the industry. Fashion Accessories and Textiles courses were added in 1983, and continue to the present day. Fashion Creation courses are programs that teach general fashion knowledge and skills. Fashion Technology courses teach specialized knowledge and skills in fields that manufacture fashion products, with the aim of training students to work in the apparel industry. Fashion Marketing and Distribution courses train students to be able to work with distribution channels in the industry. Fashion Accessories and Textiles courses were added in 1983, and continue to the present day. Fashion Creation courses are programs that teach general fashion knowledge and skills. Fashion Technology courses teach specialized knowledge and skills in fields that manufacture fashion products, with the aim of training students to work in the apparel industry. Fashion Marketing and Distribution courses train students to be able to work with distribution channels in the industry. Fashion Accessories and Textiles courses were added in 1983, and continue to the present day. Photo of graduated students (1977)Bunka Fashion CollegeJapanese designers go out into the worldIn the 1970s, a growing number of Japanese travelled to Paris, which was the mecca of fashion, including many graduates from Bunka Fashion College, who worked hard in Paris in the midst of harsh social circumstances. Of them, Kenzo Takada (fashion design) became one of the most well-known Japanese at the time. He opened a store in the key Fashion district, and became a great success, on a par with Yves Saint Laurent and Sonia Rykiel. Photo of graduated students (1977)Bunka Fashion College Photo of graduated students (1977)Bunka Fashion College Photo of graduated students (1977)Bunka Fashion College Photo of graduated students (1977)Bunka Fashion College Photo of graduated students (1977)Bunka Fashion College Photo of graduated students (1977)Bunka Fashion College Japanese designers go out into the worldIn the 1970s, a growing number of Japanese travelled to Paris, which was the mecca of fashion, including many graduates from Bunka Fashion College, who worked hard in Paris in the midst of harsh social circumstances. Of them, Kenzo Takada (fashion design) became one of the most well-known Japanese at the time. He opened a store in the key Fashion district, and became a great success, on a par with Yves Saint Laurent and Sonia Rykiel. Japanese designers go out into the worldIn the 1970s, a growing number of Japanese travelled to Paris, which was the mecca of fashion, including many graduates from Bunka Fashion College, who worked hard in Paris in the midst of harsh social circumstances. Of them, Kenzo Takada (fashion design) became one of the most well-known Japanese at the time. He opened a store in the key Fashion district, and became a great success, on a par with Yves Saint Laurent and Sonia Rykiel. Japanese designers go out into the world Japanese designers go out into the world In the 1970s, a growing number of Japanese travelled to Paris, which was the mecca of fashion, including many graduates from Bunka Fashion College, who worked hard in Paris in the midst of harsh social circumstances. Of them, Kenzo Takada (fashion design) became one of the most well-known Japanese at the time. He opened a store in the key Fashion district, and became a great success, on a par with Yves Saint Laurent and Sonia Rykiel. In the 1970s, a growing number of Japanese travelled to Paris, which was the mecca of fashion, including many graduates from Bunka Fashion College, who worked hard in Paris in the midst of harsh social circumstances. Of them, Kenzo Takada (fashion design) became one of the most well-known Japanese at the time. He opened a store in the key Fashion district, and became a great success, on a par with Yves Saint Laurent and Sonia Rykiel. Fashion Show (1979/1979)Bunka Fashion CollegeThe fashion show, “Ten Designers on the World Stage,” celebrating the 60th anniversary of the College’s founding, was held by graduates for the opening of Endo Memorial Hall. The brand names of each designer shone like neon on the stage, and the brightly colored clothes of Kenzo Takada were a great success. Yutaka Hasegawa, Tadayomi Sakaide, Norio Suzuki, Mitsuhiro Matsuda (Nicole), Yohji Yamamoto (Yohji Yamamoto), Hiroko Koshino (Hiroko Koshino), Junko Koshino (Junko Koshino), Meiko Kitahara (Mine May), and Isao Kaneko (Pink House) each presented marvelous shows. These were a great inspiration for students at the College, who looked up to these graduates of their school. Fashion Show (1979/1979)Bunka Fashion College Fashion Show (1979/1979)Bunka Fashion College Fashion Show (1979/1979)Bunka Fashion College Fashion Show (1979/1979)Bunka Fashion College Fashion Show (1979/1979)Bunka Fashion College Fashion Show (1979/1979)Bunka Fashion College Fashion Show (1979/1979)Bunka Fashion College The fashion show, “Ten Designers on the World Stage,” celebrating the 60th anniversary of the College’s founding, was held by graduates for the opening of Endo Memorial Hall. The brand names of each designer shone like neon on the stage, and the brightly colored clothes of Kenzo Takada were a great success. Yutaka Hasegawa, Tadayomi Sakaide, Norio Suzuki, Mitsuhiro Matsuda (Nicole), Yohji Yamamoto (Yohji Yamamoto), Hiroko Koshino (Hiroko Koshino), Junko Koshino (Junko Koshino), Meiko Kitahara (Mine May), and Isao Kaneko (Pink House) each presented marvelous shows. These were a great inspiration for students at the College, who looked up to these graduates of their school. The fashion show, “Ten Designers on the World Stage,” celebrating the 60th anniversary of the College’s founding, was held by graduates for the opening of Endo Memorial Hall. The brand names of each designer shone like neon on the stage, and the brightly colored clothes of Kenzo Takada were a great success. Yutaka Hasegawa, Tadayomi Sakaide, Norio Suzuki, Mitsuhiro Matsuda (Nicole), Yohji Yamamoto (Yohji Yamamoto), Hiroko Koshino (Hiroko Koshino), Junko Koshino (Junko Koshino), Meiko Kitahara (Mine May), and Isao Kaneko (Pink House) each presented marvelous shows. These were a great inspiration for students at the College, who looked up to these graduates of their school. The fashion show, “Ten Designers on the World Stage,” celebrating the 60th anniversary of the College’s founding, was held by graduates for the opening of Endo Memorial Hall. The brand names of each designer shone like neon on the stage, and the brightly colored clothes of Kenzo Takada were a great success. Yutaka Hasegawa, Tadayomi Sakaide, Norio Suzuki, Mitsuhiro Matsuda (Nicole), Yohji Yamamoto (Yohji Yamamoto), Hiroko Koshino (Hiroko Koshino), Junko Koshino (Junko Koshino), Meiko Kitahara (Mine May), and Isao Kaneko (Pink House) each presented marvelous shows. These were a great inspiration for students at the College, who looked up to these graduates of their school. The fashion show, “Ten Designers on the World Stage,” celebrating the 60th anniversary of the College’s founding, was held by graduates for the opening of Endo Memorial Hall. The brand names of each designer shone like neon on the stage, and the brightly colored clothes of Kenzo Takada were a great success. Yutaka Hasegawa, Tadayomi Sakaide, Norio Suzuki, Mitsuhiro Matsuda (Nicole), Yohji Yamamoto (Yohji Yamamoto), Hiroko Koshino (Hiroko Koshino), Junko Koshino (Junko Koshino), Meiko Kitahara (Mine May), and Isao Kaneko (Pink House) each presented marvelous shows. These were a great inspiration for students at the College, who looked up to these graduates of their school. The fashion show, “Ten Designers on the World Stage,” celebrating the 60th anniversary of the College’s founding, was held by graduates for the opening of Endo Memorial Hall. The brand names of each designer shone like neon on the stage, and the brightly colored clothes of Kenzo Takada were a great success. Yutaka Hasegawa, Tadayomi Sakaide, Norio Suzuki, Mitsuhiro Matsuda (Nicole), Yohji Yamamoto (Yohji Yamamoto), Hiroko Koshino (Hiroko Koshino), Junko Koshino (Junko Koshino), Meiko Kitahara (Mine May), and Isao Kaneko (Pink House) each presented marvelous shows. These were a great inspiration for students at the College, who looked up to these graduates of their school. The fashion show, “Ten Designers on the World Stage,” celebrating the 60th anniversary of the College’s founding, was held by graduates for the opening of Endo Memorial Hall. The brand names of each designer shone like neon on the stage, and the brightly colored clothes of Kenzo Takada were a great success. Yutaka Hasegawa, Tadayomi Sakaide, Norio Suzuki, Mitsuhiro Matsuda (Nicole), Yohji Yamamoto (Yohji Yamamoto), Hiroko Koshino (Hiroko Koshino), Junko Koshino (Junko Koshino), Meiko Kitahara (Mine May), and Isao Kaneko (Pink House) each presented marvelous shows. These were a great inspiration for students at the College, who looked up to these graduates of their school. Contest Fashion Show (2016)Bunka Fashion CollegeStars born thanks to Soen Award, a gateway to success for new designersIn 1956, the Soen Award was established in celebration of the 20th anniversary of the magazine Soen. Created with the aim of fostering new designers, it was conceived as a gateway to success that would send new young talent into the fashion world. Contest Fashion Show (2016)Bunka Fashion College Contest Fashion Show (2016)Bunka Fashion College Contest Fashion Show (2016)Bunka Fashion College Contest Fashion Show (2016)Bunka Fashion College Contest Fashion Show (2016)Bunka Fashion College Contest Fashion Show (2016)Bunka Fashion College Stars born thanks to Soen Award, a gateway to success for new designersIn 1956, the Soen Award was established in celebration of the 20th anniversary of the magazine Soen. Created with the aim of fostering new designers, it was conceived as a gateway to success that would send new young talent into the fashion world. Stars born thanks to Soen Award, a gateway to success for new designersIn 1956, the Soen Award was established in celebration of the 20th anniversary of the magazine Soen. Created with the aim of fostering new designers, it was conceived as a gateway to success that would send new young talent into the fashion world. Stars born thanks to Soen Award, a gateway to success for new designers Stars born thanks to Soen Award, a gateway to success for new designers In 1956, the Soen Award was established in celebration of the 20th anniversary of the magazine Soen. Created with the aim of fostering new designers, it was conceived as a gateway to success that would send new young talent into the fashion world. In 1956, the Soen Award was established in celebration of the 20th anniversary of the magazine Soen. Created with the aim of fostering new designers, it was conceived as a gateway to success that would send new young talent into the fashion world. Advertisement of Soen (1956/1956)Bunka Fashion CollegeJurors consisted of a veritable who’s who of the fashion world at the time, including Bunka Fashion College teachers. An air of excitement filled the jury venue as fashion design underwent serious scrutiny, with questions such as “How should clothes be made to reflect the mood of the times?” and “What does it mean to create the clothes for the future?” All students attempted to win the Soen Award, and the number of challengers has increased year by year. The fact that Bunka Fashion College design students win year after year serves as a wonderful incentive for fellow classmates aiming to become professional designers. Advertisement of Soen (1956/1956)Bunka Fashion College Advertisement of Soen (1956/1956)Bunka Fashion College Advertisement of Soen (1956/1956)Bunka Fashion College Advertisement of Soen (1956/1956)Bunka Fashion College Advertisement of Soen (1956/1956)Bunka Fashion College Advertisement of Soen (1956/1956)Bunka Fashion College Advertisement of Soen (1956/1956)Bunka Fashion College Jurors consisted of a veritable who’s who of the fashion world at the time, including Bunka Fashion College teachers. An air of excitement filled the jury venue as fashion design underwent serious scrutiny, with questions such as “How should clothes be made to reflect the mood of the times?” and “What does it mean to create the clothes for the future?” All students attempted to win the Soen Award, and the number of challengers has increased year by year. The fact that Bunka Fashion College design students win year after year serves as a wonderful incentive for fellow classmates aiming to become professional designers. Jurors consisted of a veritable who’s who of the fashion world at the time, including Bunka Fashion College teachers. An air of excitement filled the jury venue as fashion design underwent serious scrutiny, with questions such as “How should clothes be made to reflect the mood of the times?” and “What does it mean to create the clothes for the future?” All students attempted to win the Soen Award, and the number of challengers has increased year by year. The fact that Bunka Fashion College design students win year after year serves as a wonderful incentive for fellow classmates aiming to become professional designers. Jurors consisted of a veritable who’s who of the fashion world at the time, including Bunka Fashion College teachers. An air of excitement filled the jury venue as fashion design underwent serious scrutiny, with questions such as “How should clothes be made to reflect the mood of the times?” and “What does it mean to create the clothes for the future?” All students attempted to win the Soen Award, and the number of challengers has increased year by year. The fact that Bunka Fashion College design students win year after year serves as a wonderful incentive for fellow classmates aiming to become professional designers. Jurors consisted of a veritable who’s who of the fashion world at the time, including Bunka Fashion College teachers. An air of excitement filled the jury venue as fashion design underwent serious scrutiny, with questions such as “How should clothes be made to reflect the mood of the times?” and “What does it mean to create the clothes for the future?” All students attempted to win the Soen Award, and the number of challengers has increased year by year. The fact that Bunka Fashion College design students win year after year serves as a wonderful incentive for fellow classmates aiming to become professional designers. Jurors consisted of a veritable who’s who of the fashion world at the time, including Bunka Fashion College teachers. An air of excitement filled the jury venue as fashion design underwent serious scrutiny, with questions such as “How should clothes be made to reflect the mood of the times?” and “What does it mean to create the clothes for the future?” All students attempted to win the Soen Award, and the number of challengers has increased year by year. The fact that Bunka Fashion College design students win year after year serves as a wonderful incentive for fellow classmates aiming to become professional designers. Jurors consisted of a veritable who’s who of the fashion world at the time, including Bunka Fashion College teachers. An air of excitement filled the jury venue as fashion design underwent serious scrutiny, with questions such as “How should clothes be made to reflect the mood of the times?” and “What does it mean to create the clothes for the future?” All students attempted to win the Soen Award, and the number of challengers has increased year by year. The fact that Bunka Fashion College design students win year after year serves as a wonderful incentive for fellow classmates aiming to become professional designers. Prize-winning productions for Soen Fashon Contest in the past (1968) by Junko Koshino, Kenzo Takada, Tokio Kumagai, Yohji YamamotoBunka Fashion College Prize-winning productions for Soen Fashon Contest in the past (1968) by Junko Koshino, Kenzo Takada, Tokio Kumagai, Yohji YamamotoBunka Fashion College Prize-winning productions for Soen Fashon Contest in the past (1968) by Junko Koshino, Kenzo Takada, Tokio Kumagai, Yohji YamamotoBunka Fashion College Prize-winning productions for Soen Fashon Contest in the past (1968) by Junko Koshino, Kenzo Takada, Tokio Kumagai, Yohji YamamotoBunka Fashion College Prize-winning productions for Soen Fashon Contest in the past (1968) by Junko Koshino, Kenzo Takada, Tokio Kumagai, Yohji YamamotoBunka Fashion College Prize-winning productions for Soen Fashon Contest in the past (1968) by Junko Koshino, Kenzo Takada, Tokio Kumagai, Yohji YamamotoBunka Fashion College Prize-winning productions for Soen Fashon Contest in the past (1968) by Junko Koshino, Kenzo Takada, Tokio Kumagai, Yohji YamamotoBunka Fashion College Prize-winning productions for Soen Fashon Contest in the past (1968) by Junko Koshino, Kenzo Takada, Tokio Kumagai, Yohji YamamotoBunka Fashion College Class scene (2012/2012)Bunka Fashion CollegeJapanese fashion draws global attentionIn 2015, Bunka Fashion College was ranked second in the world in the Global Ranking of Fashion Schools published by UK fashion information website The Business of Fashion. The fact that it receives such high acclaim from outside Japan demonstrates the global industry's confidence in Bunka Fashion College’s history and educational policies, as well as high expectations for its future. Class scene (2012/2012)Bunka Fashion College Class scene (2012/2012)Bunka Fashion College Class scene (2012/2012)Bunka Fashion College Class scene (2012/2012)Bunka Fashion College Class scene (2012/2012)Bunka Fashion College Class scene (2012/2012)Bunka Fashion College Japanese fashion draws global attentionIn 2015, Bunka Fashion College was ranked second in the world in the Global Ranking of Fashion Schools published by UK fashion information website The Business of Fashion. The fact that it receives such high acclaim from outside Japan demonstrates the global industry's confidence in Bunka Fashion College’s history and educational policies, as well as high expectations for its future. Japanese fashion draws global attentionIn 2015, Bunka Fashion College was ranked second in the world in the Global Ranking of Fashion Schools published by UK fashion information website The Business of Fashion. The fact that it receives such high acclaim from outside Japan demonstrates the global industry's confidence in Bunka Fashion College’s history and educational policies, as well as high expectations for its future. Japanese fashion draws global attention Japanese fashion draws global attention In 2015, Bunka Fashion College was ranked second in the world in the Global Ranking of Fashion Schools published by UK fashion information website The Business of Fashion. The fact that it receives such high acclaim from outside Japan demonstrates the global industry's confidence in Bunka Fashion College’s history and educational policies, as well as high expectations for its future. In 2015, Bunka Fashion College was ranked second in the world in the Global Ranking of Fashion Schools published by UK fashion information website The Business of Fashion. The fact that it receives such high acclaim from outside Japan demonstrates the global industry's confidence in Bunka Fashion College’s history and educational policies, as well as high expectations for its future. Fashion ShowBunka Fashion CollegeNew fashion questSince its foundation, Bunka Fashion College has worked closely with the fashion industry as a central actor in Japanese fashion education, and developed together with the industry. As a leader in Japanese fashion education, it explores new forms of fashion that adapt to the times, engaging in joint research with companies and participating in collaborative initiatives that involve industry, government, and academia. Japanese fashion will continue to evolve and produce creators capable of performing on the global stage as a result of Bunka Fashion College continuing to hone students’ individuality and fashion sense, and ensuring that they acquire the knowledge and skills required to compete at an international level. Fashion ShowBunka Fashion College Fashion ShowBunka Fashion College Fashion ShowBunka Fashion College Fashion ShowBunka Fashion College Fashion ShowBunka Fashion College Fashion ShowBunka Fashion College Fashion ShowBunka Fashion College New fashion questSince its foundation, Bunka Fashion College has worked closely with the fashion industry as a central actor in Japanese fashion education, and developed together with the industry. As a leader in Japanese fashion education, it explores new forms of fashion that adapt to the times, engaging in joint research with companies and participating in collaborative initiatives that involve industry, government, and academia. Japanese fashion will continue to evolve and produce creators capable of performing on the global stage as a result of Bunka Fashion College continuing to hone students’ individuality and fashion sense, and ensuring that they acquire the knowledge and skills required to compete at an international level. New fashion questSince its foundation, Bunka Fashion College has worked closely with the fashion industry as a central actor in Japanese fashion education, and developed together with the industry. As a leader in Japanese fashion education, it explores new forms of fashion that adapt to the times, engaging in joint research with companies and participating in collaborative initiatives that involve industry, government, and academia. Japanese fashion will continue to evolve and produce creators capable of performing on the global stage as a result of Bunka Fashion College continuing to hone students’ individuality and fashion sense, and ensuring that they acquire the knowledge and skills required to compete at an international level. New fashion questSince its foundation, Bunka Fashion College has worked closely with the fashion industry as a central actor in Japanese fashion education, and developed together with the industry. As a leader in Japanese fashion education, it explores new forms of fashion that adapt to the times, engaging in joint research with companies and participating in collaborative initiatives that involve industry, government, and academia. Japanese fashion will continue to evolve and produce creators capable of performing on the global stage as a result of Bunka Fashion College continuing to hone students’ individuality and fashion sense, and ensuring that they acquire the knowledge and skills required to compete at an international level. New fashion questSince its foundation, Bunka Fashion College has worked closely with the fashion industry as a central actor in Japanese fashion education, and developed together with the industry. As a leader in Japanese fashion education, it explores new forms of fashion that adapt to the times, engaging in joint research with companies and participating in collaborative initiatives that involve industry, government, and academia. Japanese fashion will continue to evolve and produce creators capable of performing on the global stage as a result of Bunka Fashion College continuing to hone students’ individuality and fashion sense, and ensuring that they acquire the knowledge and skills required to compete at an international level. New fashion questSince its foundation, Bunka Fashion College has worked closely with the fashion industry as a central actor in Japanese fashion education, and developed together with the industry. As a leader in Japanese fashion education, it explores new forms of fashion that adapt to the times, engaging in joint research with companies and participating in collaborative initiatives that involve industry, government, and academia. Japanese fashion will continue to evolve and produce creators capable of performing on the global stage as a result of Bunka Fashion College continuing to hone students’ individuality and fashion sense, and ensuring that they acquire the knowledge and skills required to compete at an international level. New fashion questSince its foundation, Bunka Fashion College has worked closely with the fashion industry as a central actor in Japanese fashion education, and developed together with the industry. As a leader in Japanese fashion education, it explores new forms of fashion that adapt to the times, engaging in joint research with companies and participating in collaborative initiatives that involve industry, government, and academia. Japanese fashion will continue to evolve and produce creators capable of performing on the global stage as a result of Bunka Fashion College continuing to hone students’ individuality and fashion sense, and ensuring that they acquire the knowledge and skills required to compete at an international level. Credits: All mediaThe story featured may in some cases have been created by an independent third party and may not always represent the views of the institutions, listed below, who have supplied the content.Bunka Fashion College Credits: All mediaThe story featured may in some cases have been created by an independent third party and may not always represent the views of the institutions, listed below, who have supplied the content.Bunka Fashion College Credits: All media The story featured may in some cases have been created by an independent third party and may not always represent the views of the institutions, listed below, who have supplied the content. Bunka Fashion College Bunka Fashion College Stories from Bunka Fashion CollegeOnline ExhibitCreative Creations by Students at Bunka Fashion CollegeBunka Fashion CollegeOnline ExhibitWhere fashion is bornBunka Fashion CollegeOnline ExhibitBunka Fashion College Fashion showsBunka Fashion College Stories from Bunka Fashion College Online ExhibitCreative Creations by Students at Bunka Fashion CollegeBunka Fashion CollegeOnline ExhibitWhere fashion is bornBunka Fashion CollegeOnline ExhibitBunka Fashion College Fashion showsBunka Fashion College Online ExhibitCreative Creations by Students at Bunka Fashion CollegeBunka Fashion College Online ExhibitCreative Creations by Students at Bunka Fashion CollegeBunka Fashion College Creative Creations by Students at Bunka Fashion College Bunka Fashion College Online ExhibitWhere fashion is bornBunka Fashion College Online ExhibitWhere fashion is bornBunka Fashion College Where fashion is born Bunka Fashion College Online ExhibitBunka Fashion College Fashion showsBunka Fashion College Online ExhibitBunka Fashion College Fashion showsBunka Fashion College Bunka Fashion College Fashion shows Bunka Fashion College Explore moreRelated themeWe Wear CultureThe stories behind what we wearView theme Explore more Related themeWe Wear CultureThe stories behind what we wearView theme Related themeWe Wear CultureThe stories behind what we wearView theme Related theme We Wear Culture The stories behind what we wear Interested in Fashion?Get updates with your personalized Culture WeeklyNo, thanksSign up nowYou are all set!Your first Culture Weekly will arrive this week.Ok Interested in Fashion?Get updates with your personalized Culture WeeklyNo, thanksSign up nowYou are all set!Your first Culture Weekly will arrive this week.Ok Interested in Fashion?Get updates with your personalized Culture WeeklyNo, thanksSign up now Interested in Fashion?Get updates with your personalized Culture Weekly Interested in Fashion? Get updates with your personalized Culture Weekly No, thanksSign up now Sign up now Sign up now You are all set!Your first Culture Weekly will arrive this week.Ok You are all set!Your first Culture Weekly will arrive this week. You are all set! Your first Culture Weekly will arrive this week. Translate with Google Translate with Google Translate with Google Translate with Google Translate with Google Google apps Google apps