Source: https://briefly.co.za/facts-lifehacks/celebrities-biographies/134873-all-king-zwelithini-sons-personal-stories/
Title: All King Zwelithini's sons and their personal stories | Who are they? - Briefly.co.za
Words: 3000

================================================================================

The late King Goodwill Zwelithini ruled the South African Zulu kingdom for over 50 years, from 1968 until his demise in 2021. He was a polygamous ruler with six wives and 28 known children. This article highlights all of King Zwelithini's sons and their individual life stories.New feature: Check out news exactly for YOU ➡️ find “Recommended for you” block and enjoy!The late King Goodwill Zwelithini had 28 children and six wives. Photo: Rajesh JantilalSource: Getty ImagesThe Zulu royal family is one of the most famous and respected families in South Africa. The kingdom was founded in 1816 and has had 9 kings across six generations. Since Goodwill Zwelithini's passing in March 2021, his family was involved in a heated succession tussle that had to be battled out in South African courts.King Zwelithini's son's imagesThe 8th king of the Zulus, Goodwill Zwelithini, had 14 sons from his six wives. He also sired a son out of wedlock. His first-born son with Great Wife Queen Mantfombi Dlamini, Misuzulu Zulu, ascended to the throne in May 2021.Read alsoAll about Moses Tembe: wife, children, net worth, family, AKA interview responsePrince Simakade ZuluSimakade is the late king Zwelithini's son born out of wedlock. Photo: @ZANewsFlash on Twitter (modified by author)Source: TwitterPAY ATTENTION: Follow us on Instagram - get the most important news directly in your favourite app!Simakade is the late ruler's illegitimate son. He was born out of wedlock, and details regarding his mother have never been brought to life. The prince reportedly grew up at KwaKhangelamankengane royal house in Nongoma under the care of Great Wife, Mantfombi Dlamini, alongside other Zulu King children.Prince Lethukuthula ZuluA collage of the late King Goodwill and his late son, Prince Lethukuthula. Photo: @ThuliMadonsela3, @Matome_Kay on Twitter (modified by author)Source: TwitterThe late Lethukuthula was born in September 1970 to the late Goodwill's eldest wife, Queen Ndlunkulu Sibongile MaDlamini. He was a South African businessman until his sudden demise in November 2020. Police reports later revealed his cause of death to be poison. It is believed he was poisoned by the four hookers he brought to his apartment on Graceland Complex in Northwold, Johannesburg. After a wild night of drinking and uncontrolled fun, the ladies disappeared with cash, phones, and laptops but were later arrested. Lethukuthula left behind three children and four sisters.Read alsoPrince Zulu: "King Misuzulu’s blood is bigger than we think"Prince Nhlanganiso ZuluNhlanganiso is Queen Buhle kaMathe's son. Photo: @UnionConference, @sbonisomngadi on Twitter (modified by author)Source: TwitterNhanganiso is Queen Buhle kaMathe’s son. He married his long-term fiancé Wandile Mkhize in 2015. The couple is blessed with three beautiful children.Prince Butho ZuluButho was the youngest son of the late Goodwill Zwelithini's second wife, Queen Buhle KaMathe. He sadly passed away in September 2018 after being ill for a long time and was laid to rest at Mahashini royal cemetery.Prince Buzabazi ZuluBuzabazi lived away from the limelight when his father was still alive. After Goodwill's passing, he joined the succession battle for the Zulu throne.Prince PhumuzuzuluPhumuzuzulu is the late King Goodwill's son with his second wife, Queen Ndlunkulu Buhle kaMathe. The prince was named after his great grandfather King Phumuzululu kaDinuzulu.Prince ShlobosenkosiPrince Shlobosenkosi is Queen Ndlunkulu Buhle’s son and brother to princes Nhlanganiso and Phumuzuzulu. The reserved prince was born in 1988 and was a student at Kearsney College in Botha's Hill, Durban.Read alsoKing Misuzulu Zulu bio: age, wife, coronation, education, latest newsKing Misuzulu ZuluMisuzulu is the 9th king of the Zulu nation. Photo: @EdgarLegoale, @ILLY_ONE on Twitter (modified by author)Source: TwitterMisuzulu was born on 23rd September 1974 in Kwahlabisa, KZN to the late Zwelithini’s Great Wife, Mathfombi Dlamini. He is an alumnus of St. Charles College in Pietermaritzburg and has an international studies degree from Jacksonville, Florida. Misuzulu is the current king of the Zulu nation. He came into power in May 2021 following the death of his mother, Mantfombi Dlamini, who served as Queen Consort from 1977 to 2021 and as Queen Regent from March 2021 to April 2021. The new king's coronation will be held on 20th August 2022.The ruler tied the knot with Queen Ntokozo Mayisela, and they are blessed with two beautiful children. Reports reveal that he also has another child with Wezizwe Sigcau from the amaPondo royal family.Prince Bambindlovu Makhosezwe ZuluBambimblovu is a senior member of the Zulu royal family. Photo: @DNkwamba, @Dumi18247646 on Twitter (modified by author)Source: TwitterBambindlovu is Queen Mantfombi's son and King Misuzulu's younger brother. He was born in 1981 and attended St. Charles College in Pietermaritzburg. The senior royal is a farmer, interior designer, and artist by profession.Read alsoList of King Zwelithini wives and children (with images)Prince Lungelo ZuluLungelo is the late Queen Mantfombi's son and a senior member of the Zulu royal family. Photo: @GPMadamSpeaker, @GPMadamSpeaker (modified by author)Source: TwitterLungelo is the late Queen Mantfombi's third son and brother to King Misuzulu and Prince Bambindlovu. He was born in 1984 and received his education from KwaZulu-Natal's Michaelhouse boarding school for boys.Prince Mandlesizwe ZuluMandlesizwe was born in 1990 to the late Goodwill Zwelithini and Queen Mantfombi. The prince was Mantfombi's fourth son and prefers to live away from the light.Prince Simangaye ZuluKing Misuzulu (second-right) alongside his brothers Prince Simangaye (on king's left) and Prince Bambindlovu (far right). Photo: Gallo ImagesSource: Getty ImagesSimangaye was born in 1991 and is the youngest son of Queen Mantfombi. He is a father to a son but is not yet married and likes to keep a low profile.Prince Sihlangu ZuluPrince Sihlangi and his mother, Queen Thandi Ndlovu. Photo: @Akech on Twitter (modified by author)Source: TwitterSihlangu is the only son of the late Zwelithini's fourth wife, Queen Thandekile 'Thandi' Jane Ndlovu of the Linduzulu Royal House. He is a South African artist and goes by the stage name Zulu Soul.Prince Nhlangano ZuluNhlangano is the only son of the late King Goodwill Zwelithini with his fifth wife, Queen Ndlunkulu Nompumelelo Mchiza of oSuthu Royal House. The young prince prefers to live away from the limelight. Read alsoYou will love these thrilling facts about Thuthukile ZumaPrince Nhlendlayenkosi ZuluNhlendlayenkosi is the youngest son of the late King Goodwill, whom he had with his sixth wife, Queen Ndlunkulu Zola Zelusiwe Mafu of Ondini Royal House, Ulundi. Unlike other King Goodwill Zwelithini's children, the young Zulu prince lives a private life.Who was Zwelithini's first wife?The late King's first wife was Sibongile Winifred Dlamini. They tied the knot in 1969 before Zwelithini took over power as king, and they were blessed with five children, four daughters and the late Prince Lethukuthula Zulu.How did King Zwelithini of South Africa die?The ruler passed away on 12th March 2021 from Covid-19. He had earlier been admitted to the hospital for diabetes-related complications.How many kids does King Zwelithini have?The late king had 28 known children and six wives. His first wife, Sibongile Winifred Dlamini, had five kids; his second wife, Buhle kaMathe, had seven; his third wife, the late Mantfombi Dlamini, had eight; his fourth wife, Thandi Ndlovu, had two; the king's fifth wife Nompumelelo Mchiza had three, while the last wife Zola Zelusiwe Mafu had one child. He also had a son out of wedlock.Read alsoFacts about the personal life of Mxolisi Zuma and his corrupt actsKing Zwelithini's sons will no doubt carry on their late father's legacy. Despite the succession battle that rocked the nation following Goodwill's passing, the family has ensured that the Zulu royalty is one of the most powerful kingdoms in modern Africa. READ ALSO: Who is Sibongile Winifred Dlamini? All you need to know about King Zwelithini's first wifeBriefly.co.za highlighted lesser-known facts regarding Zulu Queen Sibongile Winifred Dlamini. She was the first wife of the late King Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu of Zululand.The queen has five children, including the late Prince Lethukuthula and four lovely princesses. Sibongile was previously involved in a court battle with Zulu royalty. She demanded 50% of Zwelithini's estate since she was the only King's legal wife under SA's civil law but lost. New feature: check out news exactly for YOU ➡️ find "Recommended for you" block and enjoy! Source: Briefly News The late King Goodwill Zwelithini ruled the South African Zulu kingdom for over 50 years, from 1968 until his demise in 2021. He was a polygamous ruler with six wives and 28 known children. This article highlights all of King Zwelithini's sons and their individual life stories. New feature: Check out news exactly for YOU ➡️ find “Recommended for you” block and enjoy! New feature: Check out news exactly for YOU ➡️ find “Recommended for you” block and enjoy! The Zulu royal family is one of the most famous and respected families in South Africa. The kingdom was founded in 1816 and has had 9 kings across six generations. Since Goodwill Zwelithini's passing in March 2021, his family was involved in a heated succession tussle that had to be battled out in South African courts. King Zwelithini's son's images The 8th king of the Zulus, Goodwill Zwelithini, had 14 sons from his six wives. He also sired a son out of wedlock. His first-born son with Great Wife Queen Mantfombi Dlamini, Misuzulu Zulu, ascended to the throne in May 2021. Read alsoAll about Moses Tembe: wife, children, net worth, family, AKA interview response All about Moses Tembe: wife, children, net worth, family, AKA interview response Prince Simakade Zulu PAY ATTENTION: Follow us on Instagram - get the most important news directly in your favourite app! PAY ATTENTION: Follow us on Instagram - get the most important news directly in your favourite app! Simakade is the late ruler's illegitimate son. He was born out of wedlock, and details regarding his mother have never been brought to life. The prince reportedly grew up at KwaKhangelamankengane royal house in Nongoma under the care of Great Wife, Mantfombi Dlamini, alongside other Zulu King children. Prince Lethukuthula Zulu The late Lethukuthula was born in September 1970 to the late Goodwill's eldest wife, Queen Ndlunkulu Sibongile MaDlamini. He was a South African businessman until his sudden demise in November 2020. Police reports later revealed his cause of death to be poison. It is believed he was poisoned by the four hookers he brought to his apartment on Graceland Complex in Northwold, Johannesburg. After a wild night of drinking and uncontrolled fun, the ladies disappeared with cash, phones, and laptops but were later arrested. Lethukuthula left behind three children and four sisters. Read alsoPrince Zulu: "King Misuzulu’s blood is bigger than we think" Prince Zulu: "King Misuzulu’s blood is bigger than we think" Prince Nhlanganiso Zulu Nhanganiso is Queen Buhle kaMathe’s son. He married his long-term fiancé Wandile Mkhize in 2015. The couple is blessed with three beautiful children. Prince Butho Zulu Butho was the youngest son of the late Goodwill Zwelithini's second wife, Queen Buhle KaMathe. He sadly passed away in September 2018 after being ill for a long time and was laid to rest at Mahashini royal cemetery. Prince Buzabazi Zulu Buzabazi lived away from the limelight when his father was still alive. After Goodwill's passing, he joined the succession battle for the Zulu throne. Prince Phumuzuzulu Phumuzuzulu is the late King Goodwill's son with his second wife, Queen Ndlunkulu Buhle kaMathe. The prince was named after his great grandfather King Phumuzululu kaDinuzulu. Prince Shlobosenkosi Prince Shlobosenkosi is Queen Ndlunkulu Buhle’s son and brother to princes Nhlanganiso and Phumuzuzulu. The reserved prince was born in 1988 and was a student at Kearsney College in Botha's Hill, Durban. Read alsoKing Misuzulu Zulu bio: age, wife, coronation, education, latest news King Misuzulu Zulu bio: age, wife, coronation, education, latest news King Misuzulu Zulu Misuzulu was born on 23rd September 1974 in Kwahlabisa, KZN to the late Zwelithini’s Great Wife, Mathfombi Dlamini. He is an alumnus of St. Charles College in Pietermaritzburg and has an international studies degree from Jacksonville, Florida. Misuzulu is the current king of the Zulu nation. He came into power in May 2021 following the death of his mother, Mantfombi Dlamini, who served as Queen Consort from 1977 to 2021 and as Queen Regent from March 2021 to April 2021. The new king's coronation will be held on 20th August 2022. The ruler tied the knot with Queen Ntokozo Mayisela, and they are blessed with two beautiful children. Reports reveal that he also has another child with Wezizwe Sigcau from the amaPondo royal family. Prince Bambindlovu Makhosezwe Zulu Bambindlovu is Queen Mantfombi's son and King Misuzulu's younger brother. He was born in 1981 and attended St. Charles College in Pietermaritzburg. The senior royal is a farmer, interior designer, and artist by profession. Read alsoList of King Zwelithini wives and children (with images) List of King Zwelithini wives and children (with images) Prince Lungelo Zulu Lungelo is the late Queen Mantfombi's third son and brother to King Misuzulu and Prince Bambindlovu. He was born in 1984 and received his education from KwaZulu-Natal's Michaelhouse boarding school for boys. Prince Mandlesizwe Zulu Mandlesizwe was born in 1990 to the late Goodwill Zwelithini and Queen Mantfombi. The prince was Mantfombi's fourth son and prefers to live away from the light. Prince Simangaye Zulu Simangaye was born in 1991 and is the youngest son of Queen Mantfombi. He is a father to a son but is not yet married and likes to keep a low profile. Prince Sihlangu Zulu Sihlangu is the only son of the late Zwelithini's fourth wife, Queen Thandekile 'Thandi' Jane Ndlovu of the Linduzulu Royal House. He is a South African artist and goes by the stage name Zulu Soul. Prince Nhlangano Zulu Nhlangano is the only son of the late King Goodwill Zwelithini with his fifth wife, Queen Ndlunkulu Nompumelelo Mchiza of oSuthu Royal House. The young prince prefers to live away from the limelight. Read alsoYou will love these thrilling facts about Thuthukile Zuma You will love these thrilling facts about Thuthukile Zuma Prince Nhlendlayenkosi Zulu Nhlendlayenkosi is the youngest son of the late King Goodwill, whom he had with his sixth wife, Queen Ndlunkulu Zola Zelusiwe Mafu of Ondini Royal House, Ulundi. Unlike other King Goodwill Zwelithini's children, the young Zulu prince lives a private life. Who was Zwelithini's first wife? The late King's first wife was Sibongile Winifred Dlamini. They tied the knot in 1969 before Zwelithini took over power as king, and they were blessed with five children, four daughters and the late Prince Lethukuthula Zulu. How did King Zwelithini of South Africa die? The ruler passed away on 12th March 2021 from Covid-19. He had earlier been admitted to the hospital for diabetes-related complications. How many kids does King Zwelithini have? The late king had 28 known children and six wives. His first wife, Sibongile Winifred Dlamini, had five kids; his second wife, Buhle kaMathe, had seven; his third wife, the late Mantfombi Dlamini, had eight; his fourth wife, Thandi Ndlovu, had two; the king's fifth wife Nompumelelo Mchiza had three, while the last wife Zola Zelusiwe Mafu had one child. He also had a son out of wedlock. Read alsoFacts about the personal life of Mxolisi Zuma and his corrupt acts Facts about the personal life of Mxolisi Zuma and his corrupt acts King Zwelithini's sons will no doubt carry on their late father's legacy. Despite the succession battle that rocked the nation following Goodwill's passing, the family has ensured that the Zulu royalty is one of the most powerful kingdoms in modern Africa. READ ALSO: Who is Sibongile Winifred Dlamini? All you need to know about King Zwelithini's first wife Briefly.co.za highlighted lesser-known facts regarding Zulu Queen Sibongile Winifred Dlamini. She was the first wife of the late King Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu of Zululand. The queen has five children, including the late Prince Lethukuthula and four lovely princesses. Sibongile was previously involved in a court battle with Zulu royalty. She demanded 50% of Zwelithini's estate since she was the only King's legal wife under SA's civil law but lost. New feature: check out news exactly for YOU ➡️ find "Recommended for you" block and enjoy! New feature: check out news exactly for YOU ➡️ find "Recommended for you" block and enjoy! Source: Briefly News Authors: Alice Wabwile (Lifestyle writer) Alice Wabwile is a multifaceted content creator and Project Assistant at AfDAN, boasting over four years of experience. Holding a BCom degree from the University of Nairobi School of Business, she has cultivated a dynamic skill set through roles such as her tenure at Strathmore University's Data Science Department, where she contributed significantly to research. Recognized for her exceptional talent, she clinched the Writer of the Year Award. Beyond her professional endeavours, Alice is an engaged member of the Rotaract Club of Kabete. For inquiries, reach out to her at alicenjoro01@gmail.com Alice Wabwile (Lifestyle writer) Alice Wabwile is a multifaceted content creator and Project Assistant at AfDAN, boasting over four years of experience. Holding a BCom degree from the University of Nairobi School of Business, she has cultivated a dynamic skill set through roles such as her tenure at Strathmore University's Data Science Department, where she contributed significantly to research. Recognized for her exceptional talent, she clinched the Writer of the Year Award. Beyond her professional endeavours, Alice is an engaged member of the Rotaract Club of Kabete. For inquiries, reach out to her at alicenjoro01@gmail.com Alice Wabwile (Lifestyle writer) Alice Wabwile is a multifaceted content creator and Project Assistant at AfDAN, boasting over four years of experience. Holding a BCom degree from the University of Nairobi School of Business, she has cultivated a dynamic skill set through roles such as her tenure at Strathmore University's Data Science Department, where she contributed significantly to research. Recognized for her exceptional talent, she clinched the Writer of the Year Award. Beyond her professional endeavours, Alice is an engaged member of the Rotaract Club of Kabete. For inquiries, reach out to her at alicenjoro01@gmail.com Hot: Funny pronouns Sue aikens Chase morrill Richest rappers in south africa Thomas mlambo Hot: Funny pronouns Sue aikens Chase morrill Richest rappers in south africa Thomas mlambo Funny pronouns Sue aikens Chase morrill Richest rappers in south africa Thomas mlambo