Source: https://concordlibrary.org/special-collections/fin_aids/barrett-family-collection-1757-1961
Title: Barrett Family Collection, 1757-1961 | Special Collections | Concord Free Public Library
Words: 38570

================================================================================

BARRETT FAMILY COLLECTION, 1757-1961 (INCLUDING MUCH UNDATED MATERIAL) Vault A45, Barrett, Unit 4 Figure 1 - The James Barrett, Esq. House 612 Barrett's Mill Rd, Concord Extent: seven containers, occupying about 7.5 linear feet. Organization and arrangement: organized into four series: I. Scrapbooks and notebooks, containing materials dated 1757-[1954], plus undated items; II. Loose papers, documents, ephemera, and artifact, 1861-1959, plus undated items; III. Visuals (loose portraits and photographs, photograph albums), [1816] (in copy form)-1961 (clipping mounted in album); IV. Books and pamphlets, 1791-1948. Materials in Series I remain as compiled in scrapbooks and albums. Series II arranged chronologically. Items in Series III arranged in the following categories: portrait photographs in cases or frames; tintypes; carte de visite portraits; cabinet card portraits; prints on paper (some mounted); Barrett home, Concord, Massachusetts; H. P. Moore commercially produced cartes de visite showing southern scenes, 1862-1864; other commercially distributed cartes de visite (miscellaneous subjects); photograph albums. Items in Series IV arranged alphabetically by author or other filing term. Family history/biography: Humphrey Barrett (1592-1662) was born in Ashford Borough, Kent, England, and arrived in Concord, Massachusetts, around 1640 with his wife Mary (Hawes) Barrett and their children. Their son Humphrey (1630-1715) and his second wife Mary (Potter) Barrett had sons Joseph and Benjamin (1681-1728). Col. James Barrett (1710-1779) was one of the children of Benjamin and his wife Lydia (Minott) Barrett. On April 19, 1775, Col. Barrett commanded a regiment of militia and all Colonial troops present in Concord, and was also in charge of the supplies and ammunition that the Provincial Congress had ordered stored in Concord. James Barrett married Rebecca Hubbard in 1732 and lived in the farmhouse now numbered 448 Barrett’s Mill Road. James Barrett, Junior (1732-1799), a son of Col. James Barrett, married Millicent Estabrook in 1758. Their son Major James Barrett III (1761-1850) married Dorcas Minot in 1792. Farmer George Minot Barrett (1794-1873)—one of the children of James III and Dorcas—married Elizabeth Prescott in 1821. Their children: George Prescott Barrett (1822-1827); Rebecca Minot Barrett (1825-1879); Mary Prescott Barrett (1827-1878; married Nathan Henry Warren); Emily Augusta Barrett (1829-1906; married Charles Thompson); James Atwater Barrett (1832-1885; married Jane Farmer); and George Henry Barrett (1836-1897; married Isabella K. Green). George Minot Barrett and his family made their home in the present 612 Barrett’s Mill Road. Major James Atwater Barrett—whose papers form the core of this collection—was born and grew up in Concord. He moved to Brooklyn, New York, in the 1850s, and in 1861 enlisted as a sergeant in the Union Army, moving up the ranks through the Civil War, mustering out as a major in September 1865. He served with the 48th Regiment of New York State Volunteers. He participated in a great deal of active fighting in South Carolina, Florida, Virginia, and North Carolina, and was seriously wounded more than once. While stationed in the South, he corresponded with family and friends in Concord, and developed a close (albeit long-distance) relationship with teacher Jane Farmer (1836-1919), a daughter of Jacob Brown Farmer (a Concord farmer and a friend of Henry David Thoreau) and his wife Millicent Hosmer Farmer, who raised their family at what is now 761 Lowell Road. James Atwater Barrett survived the Civil War and married Jane (Jennie) Farmer in Concord at the end of 1865. The couple made their home in Brooklyn, where James ran a soap manufactory. The children of James and Jennie: Carrie Cushman Barrett (1866-1869); George Farmer Barrett (1869-1934; married Lucy Virginia Stuckey); Nellie Prescott Barrett (1871-1931); Emma Jane Barrett (1873-1965; married Frederick Loring Lothrop); Charles Gerrish Barrett (1875-1876); and Clara Hosmer Barrett (1877-1955; married Frederick W. Peterson). After the death of James Atwater Barrett in 1885, his widow took their three daughters to Concord (son George was already working by that point) and later moved to Chicago. Deeply devoted to family history, Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop looked after the family papers that had been cared for by her mother, transcribed fragile materials to safeguard their content, and distributed the originals to her sister Clara’s children (James Barrett Peterson, William Hosmer Peterson, and Dorothea Peterson Bell), who subsequently passed them on to the next generation—the Peterson cousins, who collectively made the decision to place them in the Concord Free Public Library. Scope and content: An organic collection of Barrett family papers, 1757-1961 (including much undated material). While generations of the family are represented in the collection, a major portion of it consists of the Civil War-era papers of James Atwater Barrett. Specific contents and material types included are described in detail in the container list below. Provenance: Items in the collection were stewarded by Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop, a daughter of James Atwater Barrett and Jane Farmer Barrett, and passed down to the children of Emma’s sister Clara and her husband, Dr. Frederick W. Peterson. Source of acquisition: Most items in the collection were presented to the Concord Free Public Library by Meliscent Peterson Gill, Leslie James Peterson, Linda J. Peterson, and Patricia Louise Peterson in 2017. Scrapbook 1 was presented by Meliscent Peterson Gill in 2011; the Barrett family Bible by the Peterson Barrett descendants in 2018; the 1797 warrant from James Barrett to Abishai Brown, 1818 guardianship document for Mellicent and Elizabeth Hosmer, printed In Memoriam for James Minot Prescott (1874), George Bradford Bartlett’s printed Verses Written for the Concord Home for the Aged ([undated; between 1886 and 1890?], and watch chain made from Jane Farmer Barrett’s hair in May 2019. Publication based on use of the collection: Leslie James Peterson, Linda J. Peterson, Meliscent Peterson Gill, and Patricia Louise Peterson, Ancestors in the Attic: James Atwater Barrett. Chronicles of a Civil War Union Soldier ([CreateSpace], 2017, copyright 2016). “A compilation of Civil War experiences using diary entries, letters and documents.” Notes and comments: Scrapbook 1 was accessioned in 2011 (AMC 204), the bulk of the gift in 2017 (AMC 267). The donors obtained a professional appraisal (by Skinner, Inc.) prior to making their 2017 gift. Some of the scrapbooks are in poor condition, their contents mounted on very brittle paper, and a number of the family books are also in fragile or damaged condition. The Original Hymn (Emerson’s “Concord Hymn”) in Scrapbook I was conserved and matted prior to use in exhibition in 2019 (it remains housed in the scrapbook from which it was dismounted). Processed by: Leslie Perrin Wilson; finding aid completed February 16, 2019; updated May 22, 2019. Series listing: I. Scrapbooks and notebooks, containing materials dated 1757-[1954], plus undated items II. Loose papers, documents, ephemera, and artifact, 1861-1959, plus undated items III. Visuals (loose portraits and photographs, photograph albums), [1816] (in copy form)-1961 (clipping mounted in album): portrait photographs in cases or frames tintypes carte de visite portraits cabinet card portraits prints on paper (some mounted) Barrett home, Concord, Massachusetts H. P. Moore commercially produced cartes de visite showing southern scenes, 1862-1864 other commercially distributed cartes de visite (miscellaneous subjects) photograph albums IV. Books and pamphlets, 1791-1948 Figure 2 - James Atwater Barrett and Cuffe, 1863 CONTAINER LIST I. Scrapbooks and notebooks, containing materials dated 1757-[1954], plus undated items BOX 1: Scrapbook 1: Compiled by Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop. Contains original documents, most of which appear in transcribed form in Scrapbook 2. This volume was donated by Meliscent Gill in 2011, in advance of the donation of the remainder of the Barrett family collection. Contents: Original Hymn [printed handbill/small broadside; first appearance in print of Ralph Waldo Emerson’s “Concord Hymn”] ([1837]). Myerson A4.1. Deed, Abishai Brown to Jacob Brown, for “Two Certain Tracts . . . in the Northerly Part of . . . Concord,” May 4, 1757. Deed, William Wilson to Jacob Brown, for “a certain Tract of land . . . in the northerly part of . . . Concord,” April 27, 1758. Deed, Abishai Brown to Jacob Brown, for “A Certain Tract of Land . . . in the Northerly Part of . . . Concord,” February 26, 1761. Deed, Abishai Brown to Jacob Brown, for “a certain piece of Woodland . . . in the Northerly part of Concord,” June 30, 1763. Deed, Abishai Brown to Jacob Brown, for “A Certain parcel . . . in Concord . . . commonly known by the name of Eleven Acre Field,” July 23, 1764. Deed, Captain Thomas Jones to Jacob Brown and Mary Brown, for “Ten acres of upland . . . in Concord . . . In the westerly Part of Said Town Lying westerly of a meadow Commonly Called Pond Meadow . . . all So [also] the westerly half of a Meadow Lott . . . Called Spring Meadow . . . in the Northerly Part of Said Town Lying in Great Meadow,” November 21, 1766. Deed, Benjamin and Submit Brown to Jacob Brown, for “Two . . . Tracts . . . in the Northerly Part of . . . Concord,” May 7, 1770. Deed, Benjamin Brown to Jacob Brown, for “all . . . Right Title Claim or Demand . . . in one . . . Tract . . . in the Northerly Part of . . . Concord,” March 15, 1771. Deed, Timothy and Abigail Wesson and Nathan Brown of Lincoln to Jacob Brown, for “a certain Tract . . . in the Northerly Part of Concord,” April 16, 1771. Deed, Ezekiel Brown of Dunstable, New Hampshire, to Jacob Brown, for “a Certain Tract . . . in the northerly Part of Concord,” July 15, 1771. Deed, David and Abigail Melvin to Jacob and Abishai Brown, for “A certain Tract . . . in the Northerly part of Concord,” February 24, 1774. Deed, Martha Eastabrooks [Estabrook] to Jacob Brown, for “Two Sarting peaces [pieces] or traks of Land . . . in the Northerly part of . . . Concord,” April 1, 1776. Deed, Samuel and Huldah Edwards to Jacob Brown, for “all the Right titel or Intrest . . . in the house We now Live in and the barn & two peaces [pieces] of Land,” April 1, 1776. Bond, Josiah Meriam, Jr. to Jacob Brown, March 1, 1783. Deed, Amos Barrett to Jacob Brown, for “a . . . peace [piece] of pastur [pasture] Land . . . in the Northerly part of . . . Concord,” May 10, 1784. Deed, Peter Barrett to Jacob Brown, for “a . . . peace [piece] of paster [pasture] Land . . . in the Northerly part of . . . Concord,” May 10, 1784. Deed, Paul Adams and Rebecca Adams to Jacob Brown, for “a . . . piece of land . . . in . . . Concord,” March 25, 1806. Deed, Jonas Heald (“a deputy Sheriff under Joseph Hosmer Esquire Sheriff”) to Jacob Brown (“the highest bidder”), for “the right of equity in redemption in and to a . . . parcel of land . . . in the northerly part of . . . Concord with all the buildings thereon standing and privileges and appurtenances to the premises,” May 25, 1807. Deed, Nathaniel French to Jacob Brown, for “right title and interest in and to the real estate situated in . . . Concord of which I am seized and possessed consisting of one lot of land in the northerly part of Concord . . . with the buildings thereon,” May 30, 1807. Lease for twelve years, Jacob Brown to John Blanchard, for “a . . . piece of land . . . in . . . Concord where the said John Blanchard now lives,” October 12, 1812. Two tax receipts (1813, 1815) from the Town of Concord to Jacob Brown and one receipt for duty paid on Brown’s chaise (1816). Two receipts to Jacob Brown for payment for medical care by Hurd & Bartlett (1815) and by Paul Kittredge (1816). Receipt to Jacob Brown from Samuel Barrett for sawing wood (1818, covering expenses generated between 1809 and 1816). Discharge of obligation, James Barrett as administrator of the estate of Sumner Farrar to Jacob B. Farmer (1836). Will of Jacob Brown, May 31, 1816. Guardianship document, appointing Daniel Wood guardian of Jacob Brown Farmer, “a minor upward of fourteen years of age,” February 25, 1817. Deed, Oliver Merriam (for himself and on behalf of Darius, Jesse W., and Ira Merriam as their guardian), Ruth B. Dakin, Mary Kathrens, Betsey Gordan, Jacob B. Merriam, Anna Merriam, Josiah Merriam and Lydia Merriam to Elizabeth Farmer (widow), for “a . . . tract of land . . . in the Northerly part of . . . Concord,” April 16, 1817. Deed, Mary Kathrens, Oliver Meriam, and Anna Merriam to Elizabeth Farmer (widow), for “A . . . tract of Land . . . in the Northerly part of . . . Concord,” April 28, 1817. Deed, Oliver Meriam (on behalf of minors Darius, Jesse W., and Ira Meriam) to Elizabeth Farmer (widow), for their interest in the real estate of Jacob Brown “in the Northerly part of . . . Concord,” June 10, 1817. Deed, John Buttrick to Elizabeth Farmer, for “A . . . tract of land . . . in the northwesterly part of . . . Concord,” January 30, 1821. Bond, Jacob B. Farmer to Sumner Farrar, April 7, 1823. Relates to “a . . . piece of land . . . near Mr. Jonathan Hildreth’s in . . . Concord.” Pew deed, Edward Flint to Jacob B. Farmer, for pew no. 13 in the Concord meeting house, March 26, 1824. Bond, Jacob B. Farmer to Sumner Farrar, May 31, 1828. Relates to “land situated in the northardly parte of . . . Concord.” Guardianship document, appointing Jacob B. Farmer guardian of Edward W. Wright, “a minor more than fourteen years of age,” January 27, 1834. Deed, Edward W. Wright to Jacob B. Farmer, for “right title and interest in & unto the premises described in a Mortgage deed made by Edward Gates of Stow to Cyrus Hosmer my late guardian,” July 6, 1835. Bond, James Barrett to Jacob B. Farmer, June 20, 1836. Relates to two bonds sold by Barrett to Farmer and given by Farmer to Sumner Farrar, and to “two certain pieces of land, in . . . Concord . . . where said Farrar lately lived.” Bond, Jacob B. Farmer to William Monroe, June 19, 1838. Relates to “a . . . piece of land . . . in . . . Concord westerly of the house of . . . [Elisha] Farrar.” Guardianship document, appointing Jacob B. Farmer guardian of Freeman A. Stewart and Charles W. Stewart, “minors above the age of fourteen years,” and Bradford B. Stewart, “a minor under the age of fourteen years,” all children of Alexander Stewart (deceased), February 11, 1845. Mortgage deed, Jacob B. Farmer to Mary B. Stow, for three pieces of land in Concord (one “called the Garden”; one “on the westerly side of . . . Groton road”; the third “called the Adams piece, the French piece & the Dakin orchard”), February 12, 1846, with mortgage discharge recorded on reverse (April 1859). Deed, Elizabeth Prescott Barrett to James M. Prescott, for “Right, Title, Interest, Claim and Demand . . . in or to a . . . tract of land . . . in the town of Oxford and County of New Haven State of Connecticut . . . at a place called Phinegcook,” November 25, 1859. Issue of the Independent Ledger and the American Advertiser (Boston) for December 2, 1782. Page removed from The Liberal Christian for May 16, 1874, containing funeral sermon by John White Chadwick for Charles Pickering Gerrish. Photograph of Charles P. Gerrish taped above sermon. Inscribed in ink in upper margin: “Cousin Charles Gerrish’s funeral sermon / by his pastor John W. Chadwick.” Return to Top BOX 2: Scrapbook 2: Titled “Transactions of the Brown Family with Their Concord Neighbors, in Deeds, Contracts and Property Transfers from 1757-1859.” Hand-written in ink on title-page: “This collection consists of copies of original documents and [sic] typed and put together by Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop.” Contains typed transcripts of original documents (1757-1911, plus undated items archived elsewhere (many of them in Scrapbook I). Contents: Deed, Abishai Brown to Jacob Brown, for “Two Certain Tracts . . . in the Northerly Part of . . . Concord,” May 4, 1757. Deed, William Wilson to Jacob Brown, for “a certain Tract of land . . . in the northerly part of . . . Concord,” April 27, 1758. Deed, Abishai Brown to Jacob Brown, for “A Certain Tract of Land . . . in the Northerly Part of . . . Concord,” February 26, 1761. Deed, Abishai Brown to Jacob Brown, for “a certain piece of Woodland . . . in the Northerly part of Concord,” June 30, 1763. Deed, Abishai Brown to Jacob Brown, for “A Certain parcel . . . in Concord . . . commonly known by the name of Eleven Acre Field,” July 23, 1764. Deed, Captain Thomas Jones to Jacob Brown and Mary Brown, for “Ten acres of upland . . . in Concord . . . In the westerly Part of Said Town Lying westerly of a meadow Commonly Called Pond Meadow . . . all So [also] the westerly half of a Meadow Lott . . . Called Spring Meadow . . . in the Northerly Part of Said Town Lying in Great Meadow,” November 21, 1766. Deed, Benjamin and Submit Brown to Jacob Brown, for “Two . . . Tracts . . . in the Northerly Part of . . . Concord,” May 7, 1770. Deed, Benjamin Brown to Jacob Brown, for “all . . . Right Title Claim or Demand . . . in one . . . Tract . . . in the Northerly Part of . . . Concord,” March 15, 1771. Deed, Timothy and Abigail Wesson and Nathan Brown of Lincoln to Jacob Brown, for “a certain Tract . . . in the Northerly Part of Concord,” April 16, 1771. Deed, Ezekiel Brown of Dunstable, New Hampshire, to Jacob Brown, for “a Certain Tract . . . in the northerly Part of Concord,” July 15, 1771. Deed, David and Abigail Melvin to Jacob and Abishai Brown, for “A certain Tract . . . in the Northerly part of Concord,” February 24, 1774. Deed, Martha Eastabrooks [Estabrook] to Jacob Brown, for “Two Sarting peaces [pieces] or traks [tracts] of Land . . . in the Northerly part of . . . Concord,” April 1, 1776. Deed, Samuel and Huldah Edwards to Jacob Brown, for “all the Right titel or Intrest . . . in the house We now Live in and the barn & two peaces [pieces] of Land,” April 1, 1776. Bond, Josiah Meriam, Jr. to Jacob Brown, March 1, 1783. Deed, Amos Barrett to Jacob Brown, for “a . . . peace [piece] of pastur [pasture] Land . . . in the Northerly part of . . . Concord,” May 10, 1784. Deed, Peter Barrett to Jacob Brown, for “a . . . peace [piece] of paster [pasture] Land . . . in the Northerly part of . . . Concord,” May 10, 1784. Deed, Paul Adams and Rebecca Adams to Jacob Brown, for “a . . . piece of land . . . in . . . Concord,” March 25, 1806. Deed, Jonas Heald (“a deputy Sheriff under Joseph Hosmer Esquire Sheriff”) to Jacob Brown (“the highest bidder”), for “the right of equity in redemption in and to a . . . parcel of land . . . in the northerly part of . . . Concord with all the buildings thereon standing and privileges and appurtenances to the premises,” May 25, 1807. Deed, Nathaniel French to Jacob Brown, for “right title and interest in and to the real estate situated in . . . Concord of which I am seized and possessed consisting of one lot of land in the northerly part of Concord . . . with the buildings thereon,” May 30, 1807. Lease for twelve years, Jacob Brown to John Blanchard, for “a . . . piece of land . . . in . . . Concord where the said John Blanchard now lives,” October 12, 1812. Will of Jacob Brown, May 31, 1816. Guardianship document, appointing Daniel Wood guardian of Jacob Brown Farmer, “a minor upward of fourteen years of age,” February 25, 1817. Deed, Oliver Merriam (for himself and on behalf of Darius, Jesse W., and Ira Merriam as their guardian), Ruth B. Dakin, Mary Kathrens, Betsey Gordan, Jacob B. Merriam, Anna Merriam, Josiah Merriam and Lydia Merriam to Elizabeth Farmer (widow), for “a . . . tract of land . . . in the Northerly part of . . . Concord,” April 16, 1817. Deed, Mary Kathrens, Oliver Meriam, and Anna Merriam to Elizabeth Farmer (widow), for “A . . . tract of Land . . . in the Northerly part of . . . Concord,” April 28, 1817. Deed, Oliver Meriam (on behalf of minors Darius, Jesse W., and Ira Meriam) to Elizabeth Farmer (widow), for their interest in the real estate of Jacob Brown “in the Northerly part of . . . Concord,” June 10, 1817. Deed, John Buttrick to Elizabeth Farmer, for “A . . . tract of land . . . in the northwesterly part of . . . Concord,” January 30, 1821. Deed, Ephraim Meriam to Jacob B. Farmer, for “a . . . tract . . . of pasture land . . . in the westerly part of the Town of Hancock in the County of Hillsborough State of New Hampshire,” August 20, 1822. Bond, Jacob B. Farmer to Sumner Farrar, April 7, 1823. Relates to “a . . . piece of land . . . near Mr. Jonathan Hildreth’s in . . . Concord.” Pew deed, Edward Flint to Jacob B. Farmer, for pew no. 13 in the Concord meeting house, March 26, 1824. Bond, Jacob B. Farmer to Sumner Farrar, May 31, 1828. Relates to “land situated in the northardly parte of . . . Concord.” On reverse of this transcript: deed, Margaret Todd, Samuel Todd, and Robert Todd to Jacob B. Farmer, for “A . . . piece of land . . . in . . . Hancock [New Hampshire],” October 22, 1829. Deed, Elizabeth Farmer (widow) to Jacob B. Farmer, for “right, title and interest in and to a piece of pasture, orchard, and meadow land called the pond pasture and orchard . . . in the northerly part of . . . Concord,” June 20, 1831. On reverse of this transcript: deed, Elijah Wood, Elizabeth Wood, James Wood, and Rizpah Wood to Edward Farmer and Jacob B. Farmer, for “right title and interest, in and to a . . . piece of improved land . . . in the northerly part of . . . Concord . . . called the sixteen acre field,” July 1, 1834. Guardianship document, appointing Jacob B. Farmer guardian of Edward W. Wright, “a minor more than fourteen years of age,” January 27, 1834. Deed, Elijah Wood, Elizabeth Wood, James Wood, Rizpah Wood, and Edward Farmer to Jacob B. Farmer, for “right, title and interest in and to a . . . lot of improved land . . . in the northerly part of . . . Concord . . . called the Adams and French lot,” June 21, 1834. On reverse of this transcript: deed, Edward Farmer to Jacob B. Farmer, for “right, title, interest property, estate and demand . . . in and to . . . a . . . tract . . . of land . . . in the Northerly part of Concord . . . one undivided half of a parcel commonly called the sixteen acre piece,” June 8, 1835. Deed, Edward W. Wright to Jacob B. Farmer, for “right title and interest in & unto the premises described in a Mortgage deed made by Edward Gates of Stow to Cyrus Hosmer my late guardian,” July 6, 1835. Bond, James Barrett to Jacob B. Farmer, June 20, 1836. Relates to two bonds sold by Barrett to Farmer and given by Farmer to Sumner Farrar, and to “two certain pieces of land, in . . . Concord . . . where said Farrar lately lived.” Deed, John Dakin to Jacob B. Farmer, for “a . . . tract . . . of land . . . in the northerly part of . . . Concord,” April 20, 1838. Bond, Jacob B. Farmer to William Monroe, June 19, 1838. Relates to “a . . . piece of land . . . in . . . Concord westerly of the house of . . . [Elisha] Farrar.” Guardianship document, appointing Jacob B. Farmer guardian of Freeman A. Stewart and Charles W. Stewart, “minors above the age of fourteen years,” and Bradford B. Stewart, “a minor under the age of fourteen years,” all children of Alexander Stewart (deceased), February 11, 1845. Mortgage deed, Jacob B. Farmer to Mary B. Stow, for three pieces of land in Concord (one “called the Garden”; one “on the westerly side of . . . Groton road”; the third “called the Adams piece, the French piece & the Dakin orchard”), February 12, 1846, with mortgage discharge recorded on reverse (April 1859). Deed, Elizabeth Prescott Barrett to James M. Prescott, for “Right, Title, Interest, Claim and Demand . . . in or to a . . . tract of land . . . in the town of Oxford and County of New Haven State of Connecticut . . . at a place called Phinegcook,” November 25, 1859. “Essay on Ralph Waldo Emerson. (Found among Nellie Farmer’s papers in her writing.)”; undated. “Uncle Jacob Brown. Written by Jane Farmer Barrett of Concord.”; undated. “Amos Bronson Alcott. An Essay by Mrs. Jane Farmer Barrett written in Chicago, in 1904.” “Extracts from the “Record of a School” Exemplifying the General Principles of Spiritual Culture. (James Munroe & Co., Boston, 1835.)”; undated. Transcript concludes with “Extracts from Prof. Patten’s article in the Independent of Mar. 30, 1911.” Return to Top Scrapbook 3: Barrett and Farmer family scrapbook, compiled by Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop. Contains materials dated 1827-1904, plus undated items. The pages of the scrapbook are brittle and damaged. They are preserved in sleeves in a custom binding, and boxed. Contents (listed by types of material, not by order of appearance in volume): Personal correspondence, 1827-1904, plus undated: Primarily letters to or from James Atwater Barrett, Jane Farmer Barrett, and members of their families. Most letters are accompanied by typed transcripts. Correspondents include: Meliscent Hosmer/Meliscent Hosmer Farmer (mother of Jane Farmer Barrett); Rebecah/Rebecca Cogswell (sister of Meliscent Hosmer Farmer; aunt of Jane Farmer Barrett); Jacob Brown Farmer (father of Jane Farmer Barrett); Patty Barrett Hosmer (mother of Meliscent Hosmer Farmer; grandmother of Jane Farmer Barrett); Cyrus Hosmer (brother of Meliscent Hosmer Farmer; uncle of Jane Farmer Brown); George Washington Hosmer (brother of Meliscent Hosmer Farmer; uncle of Jane Farmer Brown); Martha Hosmer (sister of Meliscent Hosmer Farmer; aunt of Jane Farmer Brown); Nell Farmer (sister of Jane Farmer Brown); Elizabeth Prescott Barrett (mother of James Atwater Barrett); George Minot Barrett (father of James Atwater Barrett); Rebecca Minot Barrett (sister of James Atwater Barrett); Charles Pickering Gerrish (cousin of James Atwater Barrett); Lizzie/Mary Barrett Warren (sister of James Atwater Barrett); Samuel Longfellow; the Second Unitarian Sunday School of Brooklyn, New York; Ulysses S. Grant; Robert Todd Lincoln (as Secretary of War); George Frisbie Hoar; Ebenezer Rockwood Hoar; John White Chadwick; and James A. Holden. The scrapbook also includes a generic letter of recommendation (1852) by C. N. Goodnow and Barzillai Frost for Jane Farmer as a schoolteacher. Manuscripts, 1883, plus undated: Undated manuscript describing James Atwater Barrett’s military experience, 1861-1865; remarks (typed transcript only) delivered by James Atwater Barrett at the grave of Col. James H. Perry, May 30, 1883. Military correspondence and documents, 1864-1865, plus undated: Disability and leave-related documents for James Atwater Barrett (1864); ordnance invoices (1864 and 1865); and “Estimate of the Funds required for the Pay and clothing of the 21st Regiment SC Vols. for two months founded on the actual number of said Troops” (undated). Financial and property documents, 1828-1899: Receipt (1828) to Miss Hosmer (Meliscent Hosmer, later Meliscent Hosmer Farmer) for home furnishings purchased prior to marriage; a Treasury Department form (1886) made out to widow Jane Farmer Barrett about the settlement owed for military service by her deceased husband; deed to the Farmer family lot in Concord’s Sleepy Hollow Cemetery (1866, with 1899 addendum). Photographs, undated: 48th Regiment, N. Y. S. Volunteers; Fort Pulaski, Georgia; George Washington Hosmer. Printed ephemera, 1855-1883: Dedication program for Sleepy Hollow Cemetery, Concord (1855); small printed broadside, “Index to a View of Co. H 48th Regt. N. Y. S. V.” (1863); items relating to the 1875 celebration in Concord of the centennial of the Concord Fight; ); a handbill for a program on Fort Wagner and the “rebel prisons” (1882); a ticket to the opening ceremonies for the Brooklyn Bridge (1883); and a handbill hymn, “An Easter Hymn,” by John White Chadwick (undated). Return to Top Scrapbook 4: Titled “Family Letters and Papers Collected and Compiled by Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop Dau. of James Atwater Barrett and Jane Farmer.” Contains materials dated 1824-1886, plus undated items. This scrapbook has been deconstructed and the contents housed in sleeves in a three-ring binder. Meliscent Peterson Gill added photocopy of a letter held by the Concord Free Public Library to the contents as compiled by Emma Barrett Lothrop. Figure 3 - Jane (Jennie) Farmer Barrett Contents: The volume includes typed transcripts from original letters and documents archived elsewhere in original form, original letters and documents, and transcripts from some of the originals archived in this volume. This scrapbook consists largely of Civil War-era letters between James Atwater Barrett and his wife-to-be Jane (Jennie) Farmer and some later letters (from after their marriage), in original form (some with envelopes; some with the script inked over to enhance legibility) and/or as typed transcripts (some excerpted). Typed transcripts from letters and documents archived in the original elsewhere include letters from/to Meliscent Hosmer/Meliscent Hosmer Farmer, Rebecah/Rebecca Cogswell, Cyrus Hosmer, Jacob Brown Farmer, George Minot Barrett, Elizabeth Prescott Barrett, Rebecca Minot Barrett, “Friends at home [in Concord],” George Washington Hosmer, the Second Unitarian Sunday School of Brooklyn, New York, Charles Pickering Gerrish, Samuel Longfellow, Ulysses S. Grant, Robert Todd Lincoln, George Frisbie Hoar, and Ebenezer Rockwood Hoar (all in the original in Scrapbook 3), plus documents (an 1824 pew deed from Edward and Nancy Flint to Jacob Brown Farmer; an 1828 receipt to Meliscent Hosmer for household items and furnishings purchased prior to her marriage to Jacob Brown Farmer; military documents, among them disability- and ordnance-related items; James Atwater Barrett’s manuscript account of his war experience) found in the original mainly in Scrapbook 3. This scrapbook also holds a late nineteenth-century cabinet card photograph of the James Barrett, Esq./Major James Barrett House at 612 Barrett’s Mill Road in Concord; an Olympic Theatre (Fort Pulaski) handbill, dated June 19, 1863; an original muster-in document for James Atwater Barrett, November 10, 1863; an original disability document for James Atwater Barrett, July 1864; an original document titled “Return of Company H 48th Regt. N. Y. S. Vol. Infantry,” October 1863; and the typed transcript of an application for membership in the D. A. R. by Nellie Farmer (daughter of Jacob Brown Farmer and Meliscent Hosmer Farmer, and sister of Jane Farmer Barrett), undated. Meliscent Peterson Gill added a photocopied letter from James Atwater Barrett to “Cousin Story” (Joseph Story Gerrish), November 9, 1864, from the original in the William Munroe Special Collections of the Concord Free Public Library (Gerrish Family Papers). Scrapbook 5: Notebook titled “Family Letters and Papers Collected and Compiled by Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop Daughter of James Atwater Barrett and Jane Farmer.” Contains materials dated 1884-1886. Pages inserted in sleeves housed in a three-ring binder, in (primarily) chronological arrangement. Labels (“Family Letters & Papers” and “Collected & Compiled by E. J. B. Lothrop”) affixed to spine of notebook. Contents: Almost entirely transcripts from originals dated 1824-1886, overlapping to a significant extent with original and transcribed materials in Scrapbook 3 and Scrapbook 4. This notebook also includes a few original Civil War letters to or from James Atwater Barrett, one original military document, and one piece of printed ephemera—“Index to a View of Co. H 48th Regt. N. Y. S. V.” (1863), another copy of which is found in Scrapbook 3. Return to Top BOX 3: Scrapbooks 6a-6d (four items): Volumes containing items relating to James Atwater Barrett’s Civil War experience. Contents: 6a and 6b: “Through the War from Father’s Memoranda.” Two similar manuscript transcriptions by Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop from James Atwater Barrett’s account of his Civil War service, a list of battles and skirmishes in which the 48th Regiment N. Y. S. Volunteers engaged, and letters and documents from the period 1861-1865 (among them extracts from letters by James A. Barrett’s sister Emily Barrett Thompson). Illustrative vignettes by Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop interspersed throughout the manuscript pages of both versions. 6c and 6d: Two manuscript transcripts from James Atwater Barret’st Civil War diary entries and letters, 1861-1865. Include transcripts by Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop of Jane Barrett Farmer’s poem “In Memoriam,” to James Atwater Barrett (February 1887) and of James Atwater Barrett Civil War-era diary entries and letters to family, friends, and fiancée in Concord, 1861-1865. Illustrative vignettes by Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop interspersed throughout the manuscript pages. Scrapbook 7: A scrapbook of miscellaneous materials dated 1828 (in transcript)-[1954], plus much undated material. The pages of the scrapbook have been separated and inserted in sleeves in the original scrapbook binding. The pages on which materials are mounted are brittle. Label affixed to front cover: “Emma Jane’s Scrapbooks.” Contents (listed by types of material, not by order of appearance in volume): Letters: (Undated) manuscript note, Edward Jarvis Bartlett to “Dear Emma”; manuscript letters from James Atwater Barrett in Brooklyn to his wife Jennie and their children (who were visiting Concord), 1881; manuscript letters from Jane Farmer Barrett to her children while she was visiting Concord, 1898; hand-written note of appreciation for teaching at the Centre Grammar School in Bedford, Massachusetts, Bedford School Committee to Miss Nellie Farmer, December 11, 1865; manuscript letter, Phebe Farmer to step-granddaughters Nellie, Emma, and Clara Barrett, January 5, 1874; manuscript letter, Edwin Farmer to his sister Jennie, Nashville, Tennessee, November 27, 1863; (undated) manuscript letter, George Farmer Barrett to his sister Emma Jane Barrett, on N. H. Warren & Co. letterhead (Chicago); manuscript note, book dealer George E. Littlefield to Mrs. Jane F. Barrett, Boston, January 2, 1899, on letterhead, regarding Littlefield’s providing Mrs. Barrett with a copy of Shattuck’s 1835 history of Concord; typed letter, George S. Pense, Grand Army Hall and Memorial Association, regarding the Association’s willingness to accept “any papers or other Civil War relics you may care to send,” Chicago, February 3, 1939, on letterhead; manuscript letter, Nellie Prescott Barrett to mother Jane Farmer Barrett and siblings, [Ann Arbor], September 25, 1890; and manuscript note responding to news of the death of Nellie Farmer, Sherman Williams, Chief, University of the State of New York, State Department of Education, School Libraries Division, Albany, to Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop, January 8, 1907. Essays and presentations: Typed transcript of an essay by Jane Farmer Barrett, Chicago, 1904, and pieces by Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop—typed speech, “Abraham Lincoln, the Man”; typescript, “Art as an International Influence”; typescript, “The School of Tomorrow” (1945); “Republic of Paraguay. Introducing Customs of South America.” Transcripts: Manuscript transcript (copied directly onto scrapbook mounting leaf) of James Atwater Barrett obituary ([1885]); manuscript transcript (copied directly onto scrapbook mounting leaf) of Jacob Brown Farmer obituary ([1872]); manuscript transcript (copied directly onto scrapbook mounting leaves) of words written by Sophia Hawthorne (Mrs. Nathaniel Hawthorne) on the death of her husband, ([1864]); manuscript transcript (copied directly onto scrapbook mounting leaf) of excerpt from Memoirs of Margaret Fuller Ossoli (first published in 1852); manuscript transcript (copied directly onto scrapbook mounting leaf) of poem “In Memoriam” by George E. Davenport for Minot Pratt (who died in 1878); typed transcripts of Barrett and Farmer family documents available in original and transcribed forms in other scrapbooks in the collection (originals dated 1828, 1836); “Some sayings of Lincoln” copied in manuscript (copied directly onto scrapbook mounting leaf); typed transcript of prayer by Mrs. J. L. Jones, read at the funeral service of Jane Farmer Barrett in 1919; and typed transcript of September 3, 1902 minutes of the Board of Education, Glens Falls, New York, acknowledging the resignation of Nellie Farmer (principal of the Glens Falls High School) and expressing the Board’s appreciation of her efforts, accompanied by a note (transcribed in manuscript) expressing Nellie Farmer’s thanks for the honor. Newspaper and magazine clippings and clipped photographs: Items relating to William Penn, the Statue of Liberty, the Reverend George Washington Hosmer, the Concord School of Philosophy, Charles Pickering Gerrish (obituary), Minot Pratt (memorial poem by George E. Davenport), the Brooklyn Bridge, the 48th Regiment N. Y. S. Volunteer Infantry, the 1954 collapse of the steeple of the Old North Church in Boston (a result of Hurricane Carol), Henry Seidel Canby’s Thoreau (a review in Time, October 16, 1939), Paul Revere, Plymouth Rock, The Wayside in Concord and Wayside Inn in Sudbury, the Barrett Mill in Concord (from Christian Science Monitor), canoeing on the Concord River, George Washington and Betsy Ross, the courthouse/insurance building in Concord, New England churches and historical sites, Carrizo Gorge, “Our Flag in Pictures” (cartoon, Chicago Daily Tribune, February 14, 1953), and other topics. Photographs: Images of the 48th Regiment N. Y. S. Volunteers at Fort Pulaski, James Atwater Barrett’s soap-works in Brooklyn, the Barrett Mill in Concord, and Concord photo montage (Soldiers’ Monument, Emerson House—interior and exterior, Concord School of Philosophy, Ralph Waldo Emerson, North Bridge). Ephemera: Program for Christmas service of the First Parish Sunday School in Concord, December 26, 1886; business card for James Atwater Barrett, soap manufacturer; Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Brown Farmer, engraved invitation to the wedding of Jennie Farmer and James Atwater Barrett, December 26, 1865; program for twelfth annual commencement exercises, Chicago Kent College of Law (George Farmer Barrett was among those receiving a degree); ball program (November 12, 1884), Drum Corps, James H. Perry Post #14, at the Brooklyn Lyceum; (undated) program for “Lectures on Economic Subjects,” Henry George Association, Handel Hall, Chicago; printed brochure, “Greeting to the Builders and Friends of the Abraham Lincoln Center, Chicago,” 1905; certificate of qualification for Nellie Farmer to teach first grade, June 26, 1887; printed School Committee report including comment on the Centre Grammar School as taught by Miss Nellie Farmer; State of New York, Department of Public Instruction, Superintendent’s Office, award certificate to teacher Nellie Farmer, Glens Falls, New York, October 23, 1889; five engraved calling cards (four hand-colored); program for twelfth annual commencement exercises, Raymond School [Chicago], June 26, 1891; printed material relating to “Prof. Training Class, Chicago Normal School, 1897”; American National Red Cross certificate to Mrs. F. W. Peterson, accompanied by a typed letter, December 1945, Mrs. Lottie M. Meagher to Mrs. F. W. Peterson, on American Red Cross, El Centro (California) Chapter, letterhead; (undated) U. S. Army Air Forces certificate to Mrs. F. W. Peterson for service as a member of the Aircraft Warning Service; and Tea Room menu for Knott’s Berry Place, Buena Park, California, 1937. Postcards: Concord scenes—Walden Pond, North Bridge, First Parish meeting house, and Daniel Chester French’s Minute Man. Also includes: Verse (some manuscript, some typed) by several writers (among them Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop, Sherman Hoar, Sarah Louise Leete—including the poem “In Memoriam N. F. [Nellie Farmer]” by Leete); and locks of hair from children of James Atwater Barrett and Jennie Farmer Barrett. Scrapbook 8: Scrapbook titled “Concord Memories,” compiled by Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop. Scrapbook pages separated and inserted in sleeves housed in a three-ring binder, with photocopy of a separate item added (James Atwater Barrett’s undated manuscript account—prepared in the late 1860s—of his Civil War experiences). Only half of the original scrapbook cover survives. The scrapbook contents consist primarily of clippings (most undated; some dated or dateable to between [1894] and 1950, plus one ephemeral item (1888) and the undated Civil War account. Labels (“Emma Jane’s Scrapbook” and “Concord Memories”) affixed to cover. Contents: Clippings: Concord historical sites and historical sites in neighboring towns; Islam; Christopher Columbus; Benjamin Franklin; Edward Farmer (obituary); Miss Agnes Young Humphrey (retiring high school principal); Wayside Inn, Sudbury; “The Riddle of the Sphynx” by C. A. Shaw; Sherman Hoar and the Spanish-American War; a three-part article—“The Life of a Boy Sixty Years Ago”—by George Frisbie Hoar; Mrs. Thoreau’s ghost; poems by William Watson, John Greenleaf Whittier, and James Russell Lowell, and epigrams from a sermon by Dr. Frank Crane; John C. Friend; Rev. William Henry Savary (obituary); Lieutenant A. W. Wood of Concord; James K. Hosmer; early celebrations of the events of April 19, 1775; the first Patriots’ Day in Massachusetts ([1894]); April 19, 1950; Elizabeth Ford Millett (obituary; 1942); Mary O. Dakin (obituary); review of Esther Forbes’s Paul Revere and the World He Lived In ([1942]); excerpts from Ezra Ripley’s account of the Concord Fight; Colonial Inn history; Commander Charles Edward Tolman of Concord (missing in action, 1943); engagement announcement, Philip A. Davis and Ann Winship (1941); Barrett’s Mill; eulogy for George Frisbie Hoar by C. Q. Tirrell ([1904]); the Hoar family burial lot in Sleepy Hollow Cemetery; the Hoar family in Massachusetts; “400 Teachers Seek to Save Thoreau Home”; Paul Revere; review of Elizabeth Coatsworth’s South Shore Town ([1948]); Cyrus Hosmer (obituary); Evelyn M. Buck (obituary); article by T. Morris Longstreth on Daniel Chester French’s Minute Man (for the Christian Science Monitor); other sculptures by French; and “Uncle Ezra”/Pat Barrett. Ephemeral item: Program for Lake View High School graduation exercises (Chicago), June 21, 1888. Return to Top Scrapbook 9: Typed caption on first leaf: “Lest we forget: may these family stories freshen our interest in dear old Concord and help us to carry on. Collected by Emma Barrett Lothrop.” This scrapbook contains postcards, photographs, clippings, and two letters relating to Concord, Massachusetts, and to the Barrett, Brown, and Farmer families of Concord, interspersed with typed captions and extensive typed narrative on these and related subjects. Materials largely undated, those dated ranging from 1871 to 1938. Label (“Old Concord Family Memories”) affixed to front cover. Contents (listed by types of material, not by order of appearance in volume): Postcards: Mainly Concord scenes: the North Bridge, Barrett Farm, the James Barrett, Jr. House on Barrett’s Mill Road, the Concord Free Public Library, Wright Tavern, the April 19, 1775 diorama at the Concord Antiquarian Society (now Concord Museum), Peter Bulkeley’s bed and the Pre-Revolutionary Room at the Antiquarian Society, and the statue of Senator George Frisbie Hoar in Worcester. Photographs: Col. James Barrett’s gravestone in the Old Hill Burying Ground, Jane Farmer Barrett in James Atwater Barrett’s military uniform, houses and buildings associated with the Barretts in Concord and in Brooklyn, Jane Farmer Barrett portrait from a daguerreotype or ambrotype, James Atwater Barrett and Cuffe, Jacob Brown Farmer, Phebe Dakin Farmer, tablet to the Hoar family in the Old Raven Tavern in Gloucester, England, the Farmer Homestead on Lowell Road in Concord, the gravestone of Jane Farmer Barrett and James Atwater Barrett in Sleepy Hollow Cemetery, Alex Leete wearing the “Freedom Suit” of Jacob Brown, the North Bridge (colorized), the Battle Monument (cyanotype), Major Frederic Loring Lothrop (in uniform) and wife Emma Barrett Lothrop on the North Bridge, entrance to the Battle Ground, Daniel Chester French’s statue of the Minute Man, and household objects (belongings of Jacob and Mary Jones Brown, Meliscent Hosmer Farmer, and Phebe Dakin Farmer). Clippings: Items relating to Phebe Dakin Farmer, the Old Hill Burying Ground, Hunt-Hosmer House on Lowell Road (clipped photograph), the meaning of “Freedom Suit,” George Bradford Bartlett’s boathouse on the Concord River behind the Old Manse (periodical or book illustration), newspaper photograph of Revolutionary reenactors running across the North Bridge [1925], meeting house of the First Parish in Concord, and an article by Ruth Robinson Wheeler (Mrs. Caleb Henry Wheeler) about the Old Davis Store on Belknap Street. Letters: Engraved or printed letter, George Dakin to George M. Barrett, Buffalo, November 15, 1871, in gold ink, and typed October 28, 1905 letter (carbon copy) from Sarah Louise Leete, Providence, to George Tolman at the Concord Antiquarian Society regarding the donation to the Society of Jacob Brown’s “Freedom Suit” and military garb. Scrapbooks 10a and 10b: Two items, “Family Papers Collected by Emma Barrett Lothrop”and “Barrett,”containing photocopied transcripts and images appearing in other scrapbooks and notebooks; Contents: “Family Papers Collected by Emma Barrett Lothrop”: primarily material from the Civil War period. Photocopy of typed transcripts from original material and also a photocopied manuscript transcription of a letter from “Santa Claus” [James Atwater Barrett] to Jennie Barrett (1879); the undated poem “Mother” by Emma Barrett Lothrop; and a manuscript transcript of the printed 1865-1866 Bedford, Massachusetts, School Committee report expressing appreciation of teacher Nellie Farmer. “Barrett” (the title from a hand-written caption on the front cover; the bookplate of William Hosmer Peterson pasted to the inside of the front cover): photocopy of Barrett-, Hosmer-, and Farmer-related portraits and other images, and images of Concord historical sites and family-associated local sites; descriptions of Barrett furniture and artifacts; bibliography; gravestone and monument inscriptions; Barrett, Hosmer, Prescott, Farmer, Brown, and Bulkeley genealogy; a transcription of the 1875 James P. Swain letter to Charles Thompson accompanying the gift of the Millie Barrett scissors to the Concord Free Public Library; information about the name “Atwater”; information about James Atwater Barrett’s Civil War service; information about Major Joseph Hosmer; a poem for John F. Hosmer by Sherman Hoar (1893); Hoar family information; information about Jonathan Prescot[t]; information about Phebe Dakin Farmer (including an obituary) and Jacob Brown Farmer (obituary); transcript of a 1905 letter by Sarah Louise Leete accompanying the gift of Jacob Brown’s “Freedom Suit” and military clothing to the Concord Antiquarian Society; and information about the meeting house of the First Parish in Concord. Scrapbooks 11a and 11b (two small albums): Two copies of an undated Jane Farmer Barrett album compiled by Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop, consisting of typed transcripts of verse by and relating to Jane Farmer Barrett, and photographs of her. Return to Top BOX 4: Series II. Loose papers, documents, ephemera, and artifact, 1861-1913, plus undated items: Box 4, Folder 1: Military document (warrant), Captain James Barrett to Corporal Abishai Brown, June 17, 1797, with note by Brown on the reverse documenting that the directive in the warrant was executed, June 24, 1797. Box 4, Folder 2: Guardianship document, appointing Rufus Hosmer of Stow guardian of Mellicent Hosmer and Elizabeth Hosmer of Concord, “minors under the age of fourteen,” April 8, 1818. Box 4, Folder 3: State of North Carolina 1861 scrip (ten cents), Parker House (Boston) 1862 scrip (five cents) Box 4, Folder 4: Paper “Friendship” seal, with doves and roses, sent by Jane Farmer to James Atwater Barrett during the Civil War. Box 4, Folder 5: Military commission documents (on parchment) for James Atwater Barrett, July 31, 1863 as First Lieutenant, May 16, 1864 as Captain. Box 4, Folder 6: James Atwater Barrett pocket diary for 1864. Box 4, Folder 7: Original disability documents, James Atwater Barrett, July 8, 1864 and August 16, 1864 (printed forms with manuscript additions), signed by Dr. Josiah Bartlett. Box 4, Folder 8: Original muster-in document for James A. Barrett, September 12, 1864. Box 4, Folder 9: James Atwater Barrett diary, 1864-1865. Box 4, Folder 10: Nelson Sizer (“Practical Phrenologist,” Fowler and Wells Phrenological Cabinet, New York). Phrenological Character of James A. Barrett, September 12, 1865 (manuscript report in printed cover with manuscript additions). Box 4, Folder 11: Autograph book of Clara Hosmer Barrett, 1886-1891. Box 4, Folder 12: Typed transcript by Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop of Jane Farmer Barrett’s poem “In Memoriam,” written for James Atwater Barrett, Concord, February 1887, in paper cover. Box 4, Folder 13: Emma Jane Barrett (Lothrop) sketchbook, 1901. Box 4, Folder 14: Jane Farmer Barrett diary, 1902-1913, with earlier diary entries (1884-1886) transcribed at end of volume. Box 4, Folder 15: Undated manuscript note, James Atwater Barrett to daughter Nellie Prescott Barrett. Box 4, Folder 16: Printed paper seal, Harrison & Coover (Central Music Hall, State and Randolph, Chicago). Box 4, Folder 17: Four Adrian Insurance Company (Adrian, Michigan) scrips (two one-dollar, one two-dollar, one three-dollar), 18--. Box 4, Folder 18: Empty envelope addressed to Miss Lizzie Warren, Concord (postmarked New York). Box 4, unfoldered: Watch chain made from braided hair of Jane Farmer Barrett (boxed). Box 4, unfoldered: Nineteenth-century colored map (undated) of New York City; printed on paper, mounted on cloth. Damaged (in two pieces). Return to Top BOX 5: Series III. Visuals (loose portraits and photographs, photograph albums), [1816] (in copy form)]-1961 (clipping mounted in album): Portrait photographs in cases or frames: Small Box 1: miniature portrait of an unidentified young man in a metal and glass pendant; portrait of Jane Farmer Barrett as a young woman; portrait of Jane Farmer Barrett in Civil War hat and jacket. Small Box 2: portrait of Elizabeth Prescott Barrett, wearing elaborate lace cap; portrait of brothers George and James Atwater Barrett as young men. Small Box 3: portrait of George Barrett as a boy; portrait of James Atwater Barrett as an adolescent. Small Box 4: portrait possibly of Emily Barrett Thompson; portrait of an unidentified young man. Small Box 5: portrait of an unidentified young woman in a bonnet; portrait of an unidentified young woman with a cravat. Unboxed: framed black-and-white photographic reproduction of oil portrait (on panel) of Major Joseph Hosmer, painted in 1816 by Ethan Allen Greenwood. (Original painting held by the Concord Free Public Library.) Tintypes: Two portraits, one of a man, one of a woman—the grandfather and grandmother of either James Atwater Barrett or Jane Farmer Barrett. Portrait of Carrie Barrett at about eight months, Brooklyn, [ca.1867]. Portrait of Jane Farmer Barrett holding baby son George Farmer Barrett, Brooklyn, [ca. 1870]. Portrait of James Atwater Barrett, [1870s]. Portrait of Nell Prescott Barrett at about age two, [ca. 1873]. Portrait of Nell Prescott Barrett holding a baby sibling, Brooklyn, [mid-1870s]. Portrait of Nell Prescott Barrett as a young child, Brooklyn, [mid-1870s]. Portrait of Emma Jane Barrett at about four months, [ca. 1873]. Portrait of Clara Hosmer Barrett at about four months, [ca. 1877]. Portrait of an unidentified adolescent boy. Portrait of unidentified child. Carte de visite portraits: Barrett, James Atwater, in military uniform (W. E. James, Brooklyn), [1860s]. Barrett, Jane (Jennie) Farmer (Miller & Rowell, Boston), [1860s]. Barrett, Rebecca Minot, sister of James Atwater Barrett (T. R. Burnham, Boston), [1860s]. Barrett, Rebecca Minot, sister of James Atwater Barrett (A. Sonrel, Boston), [1860s]. Barrett, Rebecca Minot, sister of James Atwater Barrett, another pose from the same sitting (A. Sonrel, Boston), [1860s]. Two copies. Bates, Mary Covington (Mrs. George Bates). Brown, Lucy, “Hersey’s sister” (Whipple, Boston), [1860s]. Brown, Mrs. William (J. C. Spooner’s Picture Palace, Springfield, Massachusetts), [1860s]. Farmer, Edward, “cousin,” in military uniform (Miller & Rowell, Boston), [1860s]. Farmer, Edwin, Jane’s brother, in military uniform (Miller & Rowell, Boston), [1860s]. Farmer, Henry, Jane’s brother (Miller & Rowell, Boston), [1860s]. Farmer, Henry, Jane’s brother, another pose from the same sitting (Miller & Rowell, Boston), [1860s]. Farmer, Leonard, Edward’s son (Miller & Rowell, Boston), [1860s]. Top of card cut off; image unaffected. Farmer, Lizzie, Edward’s daughter (Miller & Rowell, Boston), [1860s].Top of card cut off; image unaffected. Farmer, Mary, Edward’s daughter (Frank Rowell, Boston), [1865]. Griffin, Sarah Wood, “Cousin” (Charles S. Rawson, Brooklyn). Hosmer, Carrie (C. T. Sylvester, Boston), [1860s]. Hosmer, Eliza (Black & Case, Boston), [1860s]. Hosmer, Henry J., “son of Cyrus.” Two copies. Top of one copy cut off; image unaffected. Hosmer, Rev. Herbert, “(cousin) Washington Hosmer’s son.” Farmer, Jennie Smith (Mrs. Edwin Farmer), Jane’s sister-in-law (Christmas, Photographer, Mansfield, Ohio). Leete, Elizabeth Farmer (Mrs. George F. Leete), Jane’s sister (Coleman & Remington, Providence, Rhode Island). Leete, George Farmer, Jane’s brother-in-law (Coleman & Remington, Providence, Rhode Island). Leete, Martha (Mattie) Farmer, second wife of Charles L. Leete, brother of George F. Leete (Howard, [New York]). Prescott, Minott, “Bronxville” (E. A. Lewis, New York), [1870s]. Prescott, Mrs. Minott (E. A. Lewis, New York), [1870s]. Swain, Mrs. J. P., “sister of Mrs. Wood” (E. A. Lewis, New York), [1870s]. Thompson, Emily Augusta Barrett, sister of James Atwater Barrett (J. W. Black, Boston), [ca. 1864]. Warren, Mary Prescott Barrett (Mrs. Nathan Henry Warren), sister of James Atwater Barrett (G. L. Hurd, Providence, Rhode Island). Witherle, Mollie Wood, “cousin” (Miller & Rowell, Boston), [1860s]. Two copies. Wood, Ella Skinner, Mrs. John Wood (Marshall & Co., Boston). Wood, Ellen Prescott, Mrs. William Wood, “your father’s cousin” (E. A. Lewis, New York), [1870s]. Wood, John Farmer, “cousin” (The London Stereoscopic and Photographic Company). Wood, John Farmer, “son of James Wood & Rispah Farmer Wood” (Marshall & Co., Boston). Two copies. Wyman, Mr., “of Brooklyn N. Y. Called father of 48th Reg.” (Williamson, Brooklyn). Unidentified young man (Manchester Bros., Providence, Rhode Island). Cabinet card portraits: Barrett, Charles Gerrish, son of James and Jane (C. H. Jordan, Brooklyn), [1875 or 1876]. Farmer, Nell, Jane’s unmarried sister, and a teacher (Taft, Glens Falls, New York). Barrett, George Farmer, son of James and Jane, father of Clara (Varney, Chicago). Prints on paper (some mounted): Barrett, George Farmer, son of James and Jane, father of Clara. Mounted on card stock. Barrett, George Henry, brother of James Atwater Barrett, “a miner.” Barrett, James Atwater Barrett, and Cuffe, both in uniform, [1863]. Barrett, Jane Farmer, as a young woman: copy image photographed from cased image in Small Box 1, [1860s]. Barrett, Jane Farmer in later years, “grandmother to James, William and Dorothea.” Two versions from the same sitting. Both oval portraits pasted to card stock. Barrett, Jane Farmer in later years, seated, smiling broadly. Barrett, Jane Farmer in later years, outside, wearing bonnet, carrying flowers. Photograph mounted pasted to card stock. Barrett, Jane Farmer, outside, [1915]. Farmer, Abby Buttrick, “cousin” (copy image from carte de visite portrait). Farmer, Edwin, Jane’s brother (small oval head-and-shoulders portrait, mounted on paper). Hosmer, Henry J., “mother’s cousin,” photographed from a painting. Lothrop, Emma Jane Barrett, packet of twelve photographs, plus a second copy of one of them, from girlhood to old age. Includes both formal portraits (among them studio portraits by Gibson Art Galleries and by Hartley Portraits of Chicago), some mounted on heavy stock, and some of Emma Jane with others (Anna Gerding Kustner, later Smith, Dr. Frederick W. Lothrop), [ca. 1885-ca. 1955]. Peterson, Clara Hosmer Barrett (Mrs. Frederick W. Peterson), daughter of James and Jane. Peterson, Clara Hosmer Barrett, (Mrs. Frederick W. Peterson), daughter of James and Jane, 1904. Oval portrait. Peterson, Clara Hosmer Barrett (Mrs. Frederick W. Peterson), daughter of James and Jane, with mother Jane Farmer Barrett holding granddaughter Dorothy Peterson, 1915. Peterson, Clara Hosmer Barrett, (Mrs. Frederick W. Peterson), daughter of James and Jane outdoors, standing to the right; her mother Jane Farmer Barrett in the center and sister Nell Prescott Barrett to the left, holding Dorothy Peterson; young James Barrett Peterson and William Hosmer Peterson standing front center and to the right, respectively, 1915. Peterson, Clara Hosmer Barrett, (Mrs. Frederick W. Peterson), daughter of James and Jane, with Frederick Lothrop (at left) and Dr. Frederick Peterson (at right). “Taken at breakfast at Cherry Knoll.” Wood, George, “Charlotte’s brother,” outside, taken December 1, 1908, by Miss S. E. Wood, Danville (Contra Costa County, California). Shows orange, walnut, and palm trees in the background. Barrett home, Concord: Packet of six late nineteenth-/early twentieth-century photographs (five of them mounted on heavy card stock) of the James Barrett, Esq./Major James Barrett House at 612 Barrett’s Mill Road in Concord. Farmer George Minot Barrett (son of Major James) lived here, and his son James Atwater Barrett was born and raised here. H. P. Moore commercially produced cartes de visite showing southern scenes, 1862-1864: Live Oak and Palmetto Trees, At Elliott’s, Hilton Head, S. C. Nursery at Elliott’s, Hilton Head, S.C. Slaves of Rebel Gen. T. F. Drayton, Hilton Head, S. C. Sutler’s Row, Hilton Head, S. C. 1864. Hospital, Hilton Head, S. C. J. E. Seabrook’s House, from the Wharf, Edisto Island, S. C. Fish Pond, Seabrook’s, Edisto Island, S. C. Sweet Potato Planting, at Hopkinson’s, Edisto Island, S. C. Secesh Gun, Fort Welles, Port Royal, S. C. Forward Pivot Gun, 200 lb. Rifle, U. S. Ship Wabash. Deck of U. S. Ship Wabash, Port Royal Harbor, S. C. May, 1863. Deck of U. S. Ship Vermont, Port Royal Harbor, S. C. Contrabands aboard U. S. Ship Vermont, Port Royal, S. C. Pivot Gun and Crew, U. S. Ship Pocahontas, Edisto River, S. C. April 1862. Fort Pulaski, Ga. Fort Pulaski, Ga., 1863. Entrance from the Demilune. Fort Pulaski, Ga. Demilune from the Sprague Gun. A similar view (lacks printed label on the reverse). Fort Pulaski, Ga. 48th Regiment N. Y. S. Vols. Light House, Tybee Island, Ga. Martello Tower, Tybee Island, Ga., Built in 1537, by the Spanish. Other commercially distributed cartes de visite (miscellaneous subjects): J. W. Black (Boston), photograph of a tower, labeled on the front in manuscript, “Fort at Newport,” [1860s]. J. E. Tilton & Co. (Boston), portrait of Ralph Waldo Emerson, “Photographed by Black,” [1860s]. J. W. Black (Boston), portrait of Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes with microscope, [1860s]. Gen. Washington (from an engraved portrait; maker unidentified). President Lincoln & Family (from a print; maker unidentified). A. Lincoln. President of the U. S. (from an engraved portrait; maker unidentified). E. & H. T. Anthony (New York), portrait of General Quincy Adams Gilmore in uniform, “From Photographic Negative by Brady,” [1860s]. E. & H. T. Anthony (New York), portrait of General George Crockett Strong in uniform, “From Photographic Negative by Brady,” [1860s]. School scene (uncaptioned; from a print; maker unidentified). Photograph albums: “Old Concord and Barrett Photos” (title from label affixed to cover): Primarily early twentieth century photographs with hand-written captions. One 1904 “Gibson girls” newspaper illustration laid in; one clipping dated 1961 pasted in long after compilation of the album. Typed transcript of “Concord Float Song” by George Bradford Bartlett pasted to reverse of final leaf and inside of back cover. Includes several photographs by James Tolman. Subjects represented in images: Concord historical sites, including Daniel Chester French’s Minute Man Statue, Battle Monument, North Bridge (the concrete version constructed in 1909), Emerson House, Wayside, Old Manse, Samuel Hoar House (Main Street), Concord Antiquarian (Reuben Brown) House, “Bullet Hole House,” Orchard House, Concord School of Philosophy (Hillside Chapel), the “Yellow House” (Thoreau/Alcott House, Main Street), First Parish meeting house, Wright Tavern, the James Barrett, Jr. House on Barrett’s Mill Road, Monument Square (Civil War monument and courthouse/insurance building), gravestones in the Old Hill Burying Ground and Sleepy Hollow Cemetery, and the Melvin Memorial in Sleepy Hollow. Also includes meadow and farm scenes, photographs of the Concord and Assabet Rivers and of Egg Rock (the confluence of the Sudbury and Assabet Rivers, where the Concord River begins), Fairyland, several portraits (Amos Bronson Alcott, Louisa May Alcott, and “Cousin Story Gerrish” [Joseph Story Gerrish]). Other subjects: historic sites and the Cary Library in Lexington, historic sites in Salem, and images of Coffin’s Beach, Gloucester. “Concord, Mass.” ([circa 1895]-1959, mainly undated; title from manuscript caption on first page of album): Subjects represented in images: the North Bridge; Daniel Chester French’s Minute Man; the avenue to the North Bridge and battleground area; the Battle Monument; the Hemlocks on the Assabet River; the Mill Brook (Lowell Road); Nashawtuc Bridge; the Concord River from Flint’s Bridge; the George Bradford Bartlett marker near the confluence of the Sudbury and Assabet Rivers; the Sudbury River from Nashawtuc; Fairyland; “The Hosmer Road”; the Three-Arch Bridge on the Sudbury River; Concord High School; Emerson House; Old Manse; Orchard House; the meeting house of the First Parish in Concord; the meeting house of the First Parish engulfed in flames (1901; a dramatic and unique photograph); the charred ruins of the First Parish; the Civil War monument; the Concord Free Public Library; the Farmer Homestead (Lowell Road); the Barrett Homestead (Barrett’s Mill Road); colorized postcard showing the old Middlesex Hotel, sent to Nellie Farmer in Buffalo; Barrett and Lothrop gravestones; sites in Plymouth, Salem, and Cape Ann (Massachusetts); the Niagara Falls area; the Pan American Exposition (Buffalo, 1901) at night; “Pawtucket Cousins”; Ashley and Elizabeth How; Donald Johnston; “Peggy and Don”; Ronnie Brett (May’s grandson), Concord; Winthrop and Ivan Wood, Concord; and the Lowell Road home of May and Phil Davis (incorporated into a Christmas card). Return to Top BOX 6: IV. Books and pamphlets, 1791-1948: Balfour, Graham. The Life of Robert Louis Stevenson . . . (London: Methuen & Co. Ltd., [1911]). Bartlett, George Bradford. Verses Written for the Concord Home for the Aged . . . ([Concord: no printer or publisher named, between 1886 and 1890?]). Bible. The Holy Bible, Containing the Old and New Testaments: Together with the Apocrypha: Translated Out of the Original Tongues, and With the Former Translations diligently Compared and Revised, By the special Command of King James I, of England. With Marginal Notes and References . . . (Worcester, Massachusetts: Isaiah Thomas, 1791). Barrett family Bible, with a manuscript “Family Record of Marriage, and Births of Children” (1792-1875) between the Apocrypha and the New Testament. Condition poor. The Bouquet, or Spirit of English Poetry. Third Edition (Philadelphia: Henry F. Anners, [no date of publication]). Pencil inscriptions and notes by young Nellie Prescott Barrett on front free endpaper and front lining leaf. Browning, Elizabeth Barrett. Poems of the Intellect and the Affections . . . Elegantly Illustrated (Philadelphia: E. H. Butler & Co., 1867). Inscribed in ink on front lining leaf: “Nellie P. Barrett”; below this, in pencil, “To James from / Mother.” Binding damaged. Browning, Robert. The Complete Poetic and Dramatic Works of Robert Browning. Cambridge Edition (Boston; New York: Houghton, Mifflin and Company; The Riverside Press, Cambridge, copyright 1895). Inscribed on blank recto of frontispiece page: “Barrett / 6429 Jefferson Av.” Clipping (1926) and loose sheets of manuscript notes in pencil laid in. Bunyan, John. The Pilgrim’s Progress from This World to That Which Is to Come . . . (New York: Thomas Y. Crowell & Co., [no date of publication]). Front cover and spine detached. Centennial Pocket Album 1776 1876 (New York: Centennial Album Co., [1876]). Damaged copy; missing two plates. Chaucer, Geoffrey. The Works of Geoffrey Chaucer. Edited by Alfred W. Pollard, H. Frank Heath, Mark H. Liddell, W.S. McCormick. [From head of title] The Globe Edition (London: Macmillan and Co., 1899). Inscribed in ink on front free endpaper: “F. W. Peterson.” Cheever, George B. The Journal of the Pilgrims at Plymouth, in New England, in 1620: Reprinted from the Original Volume. With Historical and Local Illustrations of Providences, Principles, and Persons . . . (New York: Published by John Wiley, 1848). Inscribed on front free endpaper: “L Lothrop.” Typed “Notes taken from lectures” tipped to a back lining leaf. Manuscript notes in ink on back paste-down endpaper. Front cover detached. Concord (Massachusetts). Proceedings at the Centennial Celebration of Concord Fight, April 19, 1875 (Concord: The Town, 1876). Inscribed on half-title in pencil (all but last line inked over): “Emma J. Barrett / 621 E. 65th st. Chicago / Given to me by Uncle Charles / Thompson who said it was / very valuable. / James Barrett Peterson.” In home-made cloth wrapper (orginally issued in paper wrapper). Concord (Massachusetts). Trustees of Town Donations. Annual Report of the Trustees of Town Donations of the Town of Concord, Massachusetts For the Year Ending December 31, 1916 (Concord, Massachusetts: Thomas Todd Co., Printers, [1917]). In printed paper wrapper. Concord Free Public Library (Concord, Massachusetts). Concord Free Public Library Seventy-Fifth Anniversary, October 1, 1948 (Concord: Members of the Library Corporation in conjunction with the Library Committee, 1948). In printed paper wrapper. Emerson, Ralph Waldo. Essays by Ralph Waldo Emerson. Illustrated (New York; London: Merrill and Baker, [no date of publication]). Stamped on front free endpaper: “F. L. Lothrop / May 10, 1906,” with “Chicago, Ill.” added in manuscript (in ink) between the two stamped lines. Newspaper clipping pasted to front paste-down endpaper; clipped magazine article tipped to back paste-down endpaper. Emerson, Ralph Waldo. Essays by Ralph Waldo Emerson. First and Second Series. Complete in One Volume (New York: A. L. Burt Company, [no date of publication]). Inscribed in pencil on front free endpaper: “C. H. B.” Emerson, Ralph Waldo. Poems by Ralph Waldo Emerson. Household Edition (Boston; New York: Houghton, Mifflin and Company, copyright 1904). Inscribed in ink on front free endpaper: “To Fred / from / Clara / Jan. 1-1906.” Goldsmith, Oliver. The Vicar of Wakefield . . . (New York: H. M. Caldwell Company, [no date of publication]). Inscribed on front lining leaf: “Goldwin Shephard.” Pencil notes on back free endpaper. Homer. The Iliad of Homer. Translated by Alexander Pope (New York: Hurst & Co., [no date of publication]). Inscribed in pencil on front free endpaper: “Clara H. Barrett. / 1b.” Hosmer, James Kendall. The Last Leaf. Observations, during Seventy-five Years, of Men and Events in America and Europe . . . (New York; London: G. P. Putnam’s Sons; The Knickerbocker Press, 1912). Inscribed on front-free endpaper: “To William from Mother.” Inscribed in ink on printed front lining leaf (list of books by J. K. Hosmer), under Hosmer’s name: “(a dear cousin of Grandmother Barrett).” Longfellow, Henry Wadsworth. The Complete Poetical Works of Henry Wadsworth Longfellow. Household Edition. With Two Hundred and Seventy Illustrations (Boston; New York: Houghton, Mifflin and Company, copyright 1902). Longfellow, Henry Wadsworth. The Poetical Works of Henry Wadsworth Longfellow (Boston; New York: Houghton, Mifflin and Company, copyright 1883). Inscribed in ink on front free endpaper: “Emma Peterson.” Notes in pencil on back paste-down endpaper. Several gatherings detached. Return to Top BOX 7: Macdonald, Loren B. Easter Sermon . . . After the Burning of the Meeting House of the First Parish in Concord, Massachusetts. The Passing of the Old Meeting House[—]A Poem by Edward Waldo Emerson ([Concord]: Privately printed, 1900). Combined with this in one wrapper (with pasted label on front): Dedication of the Restored Meeting House of the First Parish in Concord, Thursday, October 3rd., 1901. Concord, Massachusetts ([Concord: First Parish], 1901). Malick, John. “The Changing Theology and the Birth of the Nation—This Modern Sectarian Claim to the Americanism of the Founders” . . . Pulpit, First Unitarian Congregational Church of Cincinnati . . . ([Cincinnati: The Church], 1925. Printed self-wrapper. Inscribed in ink on front: “See Page 8 / John Lothrop / of Boston Church.” Memorial of George Washington Hosmer, D. D. Edited by his Children . . . ([No place of publication]: Privately Printed, 1882). Inscribed in pencil on front lining leaf: “Jenny F. Barrett / 1882 / 25 Lewis Av. / Brooklyn / N. Y.” Below this, in pencil, inked over, “To James from Mother.” Loose pages in front of volume. Myers, Alfred E. In Memoriam. James Minot Prescott . . . Delivered in the Reformed Church at Bronxville, N.Y., Sunday, July 26, 1874 . . . ([No place of publication or publisher named, 1874]). Milton, John. Milton’s Paradise Lost, Books I. and II. With Introduction, Notes, and Diagrams, by Homer B. Sprague . . . (Boston: Ginn & Company, 1889). Pencil notes on back paste-down endpaper. [Old South Church (Boston): materials relating to the Old South Church in Boston, bound together (front cover stamped in gold: “Loring Lothrop”; binding damaged, front cover detached)]: Wisner, Benjamin B. The History of the Old South Church in Boston, in Four Sermons, Delivered May 9, & 16, 1830, Being the First and Second Sabbaths After the Completion of a Century from the First Occupancy of the Present Meeting House (Boston: Crocker & Brewster, 1830). “Plan of the Lower Floor of the Old South Meeting House, in Boston, 1730” bound in. Blagden, G. W. Our Vows to God. A Sermon Preached in the Old South Church, Boston, at the Celebration of the Lord’s Supper, April 6, 1856 . . . Published by Request (Boston: Press of T. R. Marvin, 1856). Sermon and Addresses, at the Installation of the Rev. Jacob M. Manning, as Associate Pastor of the Old South Church in Boston, March 11, 1857 (Boston: T. R. Marvin & Son, 1857). Manning, Jacob M. A New-Year’s Address Delivered Before the Boston Young Men’s Christian Association in the Old South Church, Sabbath Evening, January 2, 1859 . . . (Boston: Published by the Association; Printed by Damrell and Moore, 1859). Exercises at a Consecration of the Flag of the Union, by the Old South Society in Boston, May 1st, 1861 (Boston: Printed by Alfred Mudge & Son, 1861). Pastor’s Memorial. Twenty-Fifth Anniversaryof the Installation of George W. Blagden . . . as Pastor of the Old South Church and Society in Boston (Boston: Published for the Use of the Members, 1862). Manning, Jacob M. The Soldier of Freedom. A Sermon Preached Before the Officers of the Forty-Third Regiment, M. V., in the Old South Church, Boston, Sunday Morning, Oct. 5, 1862 . . . Printed for the Use of the Regiment (Boston: J. E. Farwell and Company, Printers, 1862). Report of the Superintendent of the Chambers Street Chapel, Boston. April, 1863 (Boston: Wright & Potter, Printers, 1863). Submitted by Lothrop Loring, Superintendent of the Chambers Street Chapel. Chronicles of Old South Church, Being the Third Congregational Church in Boston. September 1st, 1861 (Boston: Alfred Mudge and Son, Printers, 1863). Palmer, Abraham J. The History of the Forty-Eighth Regiment New York State Volunteers, in the War for the Union. 1861-1865 . . . Illustrated . . . (Brooklyn, N. Y.: Published by the Veteran Association of the Regiment, 1885; for sale by Charles T. Dillingham, New York). Two copies, both including added materials. One includes added photographs, clippings, a printed letter (February 8, 1883) by James Atwater Barrett to “Comrade” regarding subscriptions to Palmer’s newly completed regimental history, an 1864 manuscript list of deceased soldiers of the Forty-Eighth Regiment at Andersonville, and a January 18, 1886 letter of sympathy from the George C. Strong Post, No. 534, to the recently widowed Jane Farmer Barrett. The other bears the bookplate of Margaret and James Peterson, the inscriptions “To / Nelly P. Barrett / from Mother / Jan. 1, 1886” and “To / James and Margaret / from mother Clara / June 27, 1934,” added clippings, and a printed handbill of the lyrics to “America” (“My Country ‘Tis of Thee”). [Pamphlets gathered together in home-made paper wrapper (front of wrapper detached)]: Societas Concordiae et Amicitiae. Address and Poem Delivered at the First Anniversary of the S. C. A., Concord, October 4th, 1856 ([Concord, Massachusetts]: Published by the Society for Private Distribution, 1856). Chadwick, John W. Green Pastures and Still Waters. A Sermon . . . 1889-90. October (Boston: George H. Ellis, [1889/1890]). Inscribed on title-page: “J. F. Barrett.” Emerson, Ralph Waldo. A Historical Discourse, Delivered Before the Citizens of Concord, 12th September, 1835, on the Second Centennial Anniversary of the Incorporation of the Town . . . Republished by Request (Boston: For Sale by W. B. Clarke; Press of Rand, Avery, and Company, [ca. 1875]). Inscribed in ink on front of wrapper: “J. A. Barrett / Brooklyn / N. Y.” Concord (Massachusetts). The Celebration in Concord of the One Hundredth Anniversary of the Birth of Abraham Lincoln. February the Twelfth 1909 (Concord: Printed by vote of the Town at the Annual Town Meeting held April 6th, 1909). Peattie, Elia W. Poems You Ought to Know. Selected by Elia W. Peattie . . . Illustrated by Ellsworth Young (Chicago; New York; Toronto; London and Edinburgh: Fleming H. Revell Company, copyright 1903). Inscribed in pencil on first printed page: “J. F. Barrett From Eliza Hosmer / Los Angeles Cal. / May-1908.” Verse in manuscript laid in. Clipping pasted to back paste-down endpaper. Porter, Jermain G. The Stars in Song and Legend . . . With Illustrations from the Drawings of Albrecht Dürer (Boston; London: Ginn & Company; The Athenaeum Press, 1901). Inscribed in ink on front free endpaper: “To Emma & Clara [“& Clara” crossed out] / Dec. 25, 1901.” Clipping on planets in the evening sky pasted in. Sheet of notes in ink and pencil tipped to back free endpaper. Prescott, William. The Prescott Memorial: or a Genealogical Memoir of the Prescott Families in America. In Two Parts . . . (Boston: Printed by Henry W. Dutton & Son, 1870). Inscribed “Mrs. J. F. Barrett / 4513 Lake Ave.” on front lining leaf. On the blank recto of frontispiece page: [in pencil] “J. A. Barrett” / [in ink] “James Atwater Barrett / Page 129.” Lengthy write-up of James Atwater Barrett’s Civil War experience begins on page 129. Rodeheaver, Homer A. Worth While Poems. Waif Gems of Verse Gathered from Here and There and Recited in Public Readings by Homer A. Rodeheaver (Chicago; Philadelphia: The Rodeheaver Company, 1916) In printed paper wrapper. Notes in ink on verso of title-page. Clipping (a poem by Belle Smith) laid in. Scott, Walter. The Lady of the Lake. A Poem in Six Cantos . . . With Notes and an Appendix from the Latest Edinburgh Edition (Chicago: M. A Donohue & Co., [no date of publication]). Pencil notes on front and back endpapers. Scott, Walter. The Poetical Works of Sir Walter Scott. Including Introduction and Notes. Complete Edition (New York: Thomas Y. Crowell & Co., [no date of publication]). Inscribed in pencil on front free endpaper: “Harry Peck [?] / from / Aunt Maria / 1888.” Title-page and another page near the beginning of the volume loose; spine damaged. Sears, Clara Endicott. Bronson Alcott’s Fruitlands. Compiled by Clara Endicott Sears. With Transcendental Wild Oats by Louisa M. Alcott (Boston; New York: Houghton Mifflin Company; The Riverside Press, Cambridge, 1915). Inscribed in ink on front free endpaper: “E. B. Lothrop / from Bernice / Xmas 1916.” Seymour, Mary. Chaucer’s Stories Simply Told . . . With Illustrations by E. M. Scannell (London; Edinburgh; New York: T. Nelson and Sons, 1884). Shakespeare, William. The Complete Dramatic and Poetical Works of William Shakspeare. Carefully Printed from the Text of the Latest Corrected Editions. Illustrated with Thirty Full-Page Engravings (New York: Hurst & Co., [no date of publication]). Inscribed in ink on front paste-down endpaper: “Goldwin T. Shephard.” A dried clover laid in. Social Circle in Concord. The Centennial of the Social Circle in Concord. March 21, 1882 . . . (Cambridge: Printed at the Riverside Press, 1882). Three copies. One copy inscribed in pencil on front lining leaf: “Mrs. J. F. Barrett.” One copy inscribed in ink on front lining leaf: “To James and Margaret / from mother Clara / June 27-1934.” One copy (water-damaged) inscribed in pencil (beneath another inscription): “Mrs. J. F. Barrett / 237 E. 65th st / Chicago / . . . ” Souvestre, Emile. An Attic Philosopher in Paris . . . (New York: H. M. Caldwell Company, [no date of publication]). Tennyson, Alfred. The Poetical Works of Alfred Lord Tennyson, Poet Laureate (New York; Boston: Thomas Y. Crowell & Co., copyright 1885). Binding damaged. Tymms, Samuel. An Architectural and Historical Account of the Church of St. Mary, Bury St. Edmund’s . . . (Bury St. Edmund’s: Jackson and Frost; London: Simpkin and Marshall, 1854). Inscribed in pencil on front free endpaper: “Thompson.” Inscribed on a slip of paper tipped to front free endpaper: “The property of / Miss N. Farmer.” Slip of paper on which page references to the Barrett (Barret, Baret) family are recorded tipped to back paste-down endpaper. A photograph and a clipping (“Dec 1900”) laid in. Front and back covers and pages at front of volume detached. The Week-End Book (Bloomsbury: The Nonesuch Press, 1931). Inscribed in ink on back paste-down endpaper: “Stanley from Agnes- / March 1932.” Whittier, John Greenleaf. The Complete Poetical Works of John Greenleaf Whittier. Household Edition. With Illustrations (Boston; New York: Houghton, Mifflin and Company; The Riverside Press, Cambridge, copyright 1892). Inscribed in ink on front lining leaf: “F. W. Peterson”; clipping tipped to same lining leaf. Painted bookmark laid in. Volume damaged (pages at front detached; some detached and torn pages within). Whittier, John Greenleaf. The Poetical Works of John Greenleaf Whittier. Complete in Two Volumes. Volume II (Boston: Ticknor & Fields, 1864). Inscribed in ink on front lining leaf: “Miss Jenny Farmer. / with the best wishes / of your affectionate friend / E. A. B. Thompson.” Inscribed in pencil below this: “To James / from / Mother.” Front and back covers and pages at end detached. Wilde, Oscar. The Plays of Oscar Wilde (New York: H. S. Nichols, copyright 1914). “The Cosmopolitan Library.” Volume damaged (front and back covers and pages at front and back detached). Wood, Albert E. How Our Great-Grandfathers Lived. Read Before the Concord Antiquarian Society . . . (Concord, Massachusetts: Concord Antiquarian Society, [1902]). In printed paper wrapper. Condition poor. Return to Top Return to Special Collections Finding Aids Home BARRETT FAMILY COLLECTION, 1757-1961 (INCLUDING MUCH UNDATED MATERIAL) Vault A45, Barrett, Unit 4 Figure 1 - The James Barrett, Esq. House 612 Barrett's Mill Rd, Concord Extent: seven containers, occupying about 7.5 linear feet. Organization and arrangement: organized into four series: I. Scrapbooks and notebooks, containing materials dated 1757-[1954], plus undated items; II. Loose papers, documents, ephemera, and artifact, 1861-1959, plus undated items; III. Visuals (loose portraits and photographs, photograph albums), [1816] (in copy form)-1961 (clipping mounted in album); IV. Books and pamphlets, 1791-1948. Materials in Series I remain as compiled in scrapbooks and albums. Series II arranged chronologically. Items in Series III arranged in the following categories: portrait photographs in cases or frames; tintypes; carte de visite portraits; cabinet card portraits; prints on paper (some mounted); Barrett home, Concord, Massachusetts; H. P. Moore commercially produced cartes de visite showing southern scenes, 1862-1864; other commercially distributed cartes de visite (miscellaneous subjects); photograph albums. Items in Series IV arranged alphabetically by author or other filing term. Family history/biography: Humphrey Barrett (1592-1662) was born in Ashford Borough, Kent, England, and arrived in Concord, Massachusetts, around 1640 with his wife Mary (Hawes) Barrett and their children. Their son Humphrey (1630-1715) and his second wife Mary (Potter) Barrett had sons Joseph and Benjamin (1681-1728). Col. James Barrett (1710-1779) was one of the children of Benjamin and his wife Lydia (Minott) Barrett. On April 19, 1775, Col. Barrett commanded a regiment of militia and all Colonial troops present in Concord, and was also in charge of the supplies and ammunition that the Provincial Congress had ordered stored in Concord. James Barrett married Rebecca Hubbard in 1732 and lived in the farmhouse now numbered 448 Barrett’s Mill Road. James Barrett, Junior (1732-1799), a son of Col. James Barrett, married Millicent Estabrook in 1758. Their son Major James Barrett III (1761-1850) married Dorcas Minot in 1792. Farmer George Minot Barrett (1794-1873)—one of the children of James III and Dorcas—married Elizabeth Prescott in 1821. Their children: George Prescott Barrett (1822-1827); Rebecca Minot Barrett (1825-1879); Mary Prescott Barrett (1827-1878; married Nathan Henry Warren); Emily Augusta Barrett (1829-1906; married Charles Thompson); James Atwater Barrett (1832-1885; married Jane Farmer); and George Henry Barrett (1836-1897; married Isabella K. Green). George Minot Barrett and his family made their home in the present 612 Barrett’s Mill Road. Major James Atwater Barrett—whose papers form the core of this collection—was born and grew up in Concord. He moved to Brooklyn, New York, in the 1850s, and in 1861 enlisted as a sergeant in the Union Army, moving up the ranks through the Civil War, mustering out as a major in September 1865. He served with the 48th Regiment of New York State Volunteers. He participated in a great deal of active fighting in South Carolina, Florida, Virginia, and North Carolina, and was seriously wounded more than once. While stationed in the South, he corresponded with family and friends in Concord, and developed a close (albeit long-distance) relationship with teacher Jane Farmer (1836-1919), a daughter of Jacob Brown Farmer (a Concord farmer and a friend of Henry David Thoreau) and his wife Millicent Hosmer Farmer, who raised their family at what is now 761 Lowell Road. James Atwater Barrett survived the Civil War and married Jane (Jennie) Farmer in Concord at the end of 1865. The couple made their home in Brooklyn, where James ran a soap manufactory. The children of James and Jennie: Carrie Cushman Barrett (1866-1869); George Farmer Barrett (1869-1934; married Lucy Virginia Stuckey); Nellie Prescott Barrett (1871-1931); Emma Jane Barrett (1873-1965; married Frederick Loring Lothrop); Charles Gerrish Barrett (1875-1876); and Clara Hosmer Barrett (1877-1955; married Frederick W. Peterson). After the death of James Atwater Barrett in 1885, his widow took their three daughters to Concord (son George was already working by that point) and later moved to Chicago. Deeply devoted to family history, Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop looked after the family papers that had been cared for by her mother, transcribed fragile materials to safeguard their content, and distributed the originals to her sister Clara’s children (James Barrett Peterson, William Hosmer Peterson, and Dorothea Peterson Bell), who subsequently passed them on to the next generation—the Peterson cousins, who collectively made the decision to place them in the Concord Free Public Library. Scope and content: An organic collection of Barrett family papers, 1757-1961 (including much undated material). While generations of the family are represented in the collection, a major portion of it consists of the Civil War-era papers of James Atwater Barrett. Specific contents and material types included are described in detail in the container list below. Provenance: Items in the collection were stewarded by Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop, a daughter of James Atwater Barrett and Jane Farmer Barrett, and passed down to the children of Emma’s sister Clara and her husband, Dr. Frederick W. Peterson. Source of acquisition: Most items in the collection were presented to the Concord Free Public Library by Meliscent Peterson Gill, Leslie James Peterson, Linda J. Peterson, and Patricia Louise Peterson in 2017. Scrapbook 1 was presented by Meliscent Peterson Gill in 2011; the Barrett family Bible by the Peterson Barrett descendants in 2018; the 1797 warrant from James Barrett to Abishai Brown, 1818 guardianship document for Mellicent and Elizabeth Hosmer, printed In Memoriam for James Minot Prescott (1874), George Bradford Bartlett’s printed Verses Written for the Concord Home for the Aged ([undated; between 1886 and 1890?], and watch chain made from Jane Farmer Barrett’s hair in May 2019. Publication based on use of the collection: Leslie James Peterson, Linda J. Peterson, Meliscent Peterson Gill, and Patricia Louise Peterson, Ancestors in the Attic: James Atwater Barrett. Chronicles of a Civil War Union Soldier ([CreateSpace], 2017, copyright 2016). “A compilation of Civil War experiences using diary entries, letters and documents.” Notes and comments: Scrapbook 1 was accessioned in 2011 (AMC 204), the bulk of the gift in 2017 (AMC 267). The donors obtained a professional appraisal (by Skinner, Inc.) prior to making their 2017 gift. Some of the scrapbooks are in poor condition, their contents mounted on very brittle paper, and a number of the family books are also in fragile or damaged condition. The Original Hymn (Emerson’s “Concord Hymn”) in Scrapbook I was conserved and matted prior to use in exhibition in 2019 (it remains housed in the scrapbook from which it was dismounted). Processed by: Leslie Perrin Wilson; finding aid completed February 16, 2019; updated May 22, 2019. Series listing: I. Scrapbooks and notebooks, containing materials dated 1757-[1954], plus undated items II. Loose papers, documents, ephemera, and artifact, 1861-1959, plus undated items III. Visuals (loose portraits and photographs, photograph albums), [1816] (in copy form)-1961 (clipping mounted in album): portrait photographs in cases or frames tintypes carte de visite portraits cabinet card portraits prints on paper (some mounted) Barrett home, Concord, Massachusetts H. P. Moore commercially produced cartes de visite showing southern scenes, 1862-1864 other commercially distributed cartes de visite (miscellaneous subjects) photograph albums IV. Books and pamphlets, 1791-1948 Figure 2 - James Atwater Barrett and Cuffe, 1863 CONTAINER LIST I. Scrapbooks and notebooks, containing materials dated 1757-[1954], plus undated items BOX 1: Scrapbook 1: Compiled by Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop. Contains original documents, most of which appear in transcribed form in Scrapbook 2. This volume was donated by Meliscent Gill in 2011, in advance of the donation of the remainder of the Barrett family collection. Contents: Original Hymn [printed handbill/small broadside; first appearance in print of Ralph Waldo Emerson’s “Concord Hymn”] ([1837]). Myerson A4.1. Deed, Abishai Brown to Jacob Brown, for “Two Certain Tracts . . . in the Northerly Part of . . . Concord,” May 4, 1757. Deed, William Wilson to Jacob Brown, for “a certain Tract of land . . . in the northerly part of . . . Concord,” April 27, 1758. Deed, Abishai Brown to Jacob Brown, for “A Certain Tract of Land . . . in the Northerly Part of . . . Concord,” February 26, 1761. Deed, Abishai Brown to Jacob Brown, for “a certain piece of Woodland . . . in the Northerly part of Concord,” June 30, 1763. Deed, Abishai Brown to Jacob Brown, for “A Certain parcel . . . in Concord . . . commonly known by the name of Eleven Acre Field,” July 23, 1764. Deed, Captain Thomas Jones to Jacob Brown and Mary Brown, for “Ten acres of upland . . . in Concord . . . In the westerly Part of Said Town Lying westerly of a meadow Commonly Called Pond Meadow . . . all So [also] the westerly half of a Meadow Lott . . . Called Spring Meadow . . . in the Northerly Part of Said Town Lying in Great Meadow,” November 21, 1766. Deed, Benjamin and Submit Brown to Jacob Brown, for “Two . . . Tracts . . . in the Northerly Part of . . . Concord,” May 7, 1770. Deed, Benjamin Brown to Jacob Brown, for “all . . . Right Title Claim or Demand . . . in one . . . Tract . . . in the Northerly Part of . . . Concord,” March 15, 1771. Deed, Timothy and Abigail Wesson and Nathan Brown of Lincoln to Jacob Brown, for “a certain Tract . . . in the Northerly Part of Concord,” April 16, 1771. Deed, Ezekiel Brown of Dunstable, New Hampshire, to Jacob Brown, for “a Certain Tract . . . in the northerly Part of Concord,” July 15, 1771. Deed, David and Abigail Melvin to Jacob and Abishai Brown, for “A certain Tract . . . in the Northerly part of Concord,” February 24, 1774. Deed, Martha Eastabrooks [Estabrook] to Jacob Brown, for “Two Sarting peaces [pieces] or traks of Land . . . in the Northerly part of . . . Concord,” April 1, 1776. Deed, Samuel and Huldah Edwards to Jacob Brown, for “all the Right titel or Intrest . . . in the house We now Live in and the barn & two peaces [pieces] of Land,” April 1, 1776. Bond, Josiah Meriam, Jr. to Jacob Brown, March 1, 1783. Deed, Amos Barrett to Jacob Brown, for “a . . . peace [piece] of pastur [pasture] Land . . . in the Northerly part of . . . Concord,” May 10, 1784. Deed, Peter Barrett to Jacob Brown, for “a . . . peace [piece] of paster [pasture] Land . . . in the Northerly part of . . . Concord,” May 10, 1784. Deed, Paul Adams and Rebecca Adams to Jacob Brown, for “a . . . piece of land . . . in . . . Concord,” March 25, 1806. Deed, Jonas Heald (“a deputy Sheriff under Joseph Hosmer Esquire Sheriff”) to Jacob Brown (“the highest bidder”), for “the right of equity in redemption in and to a . . . parcel of land . . . in the northerly part of . . . Concord with all the buildings thereon standing and privileges and appurtenances to the premises,” May 25, 1807. Deed, Nathaniel French to Jacob Brown, for “right title and interest in and to the real estate situated in . . . Concord of which I am seized and possessed consisting of one lot of land in the northerly part of Concord . . . with the buildings thereon,” May 30, 1807. Lease for twelve years, Jacob Brown to John Blanchard, for “a . . . piece of land . . . in . . . Concord where the said John Blanchard now lives,” October 12, 1812. Two tax receipts (1813, 1815) from the Town of Concord to Jacob Brown and one receipt for duty paid on Brown’s chaise (1816). Two receipts to Jacob Brown for payment for medical care by Hurd & Bartlett (1815) and by Paul Kittredge (1816). Receipt to Jacob Brown from Samuel Barrett for sawing wood (1818, covering expenses generated between 1809 and 1816). Discharge of obligation, James Barrett as administrator of the estate of Sumner Farrar to Jacob B. Farmer (1836). Will of Jacob Brown, May 31, 1816. Guardianship document, appointing Daniel Wood guardian of Jacob Brown Farmer, “a minor upward of fourteen years of age,” February 25, 1817. Deed, Oliver Merriam (for himself and on behalf of Darius, Jesse W., and Ira Merriam as their guardian), Ruth B. Dakin, Mary Kathrens, Betsey Gordan, Jacob B. Merriam, Anna Merriam, Josiah Merriam and Lydia Merriam to Elizabeth Farmer (widow), for “a . . . tract of land . . . in the Northerly part of . . . Concord,” April 16, 1817. Deed, Mary Kathrens, Oliver Meriam, and Anna Merriam to Elizabeth Farmer (widow), for “A . . . tract of Land . . . in the Northerly part of . . . Concord,” April 28, 1817. Deed, Oliver Meriam (on behalf of minors Darius, Jesse W., and Ira Meriam) to Elizabeth Farmer (widow), for their interest in the real estate of Jacob Brown “in the Northerly part of . . . Concord,” June 10, 1817. Deed, John Buttrick to Elizabeth Farmer, for “A . . . tract of land . . . in the northwesterly part of . . . Concord,” January 30, 1821. Bond, Jacob B. Farmer to Sumner Farrar, April 7, 1823. Relates to “a . . . piece of land . . . near Mr. Jonathan Hildreth’s in . . . Concord.” Pew deed, Edward Flint to Jacob B. Farmer, for pew no. 13 in the Concord meeting house, March 26, 1824. Bond, Jacob B. Farmer to Sumner Farrar, May 31, 1828. Relates to “land situated in the northardly parte of . . . Concord.” Guardianship document, appointing Jacob B. Farmer guardian of Edward W. Wright, “a minor more than fourteen years of age,” January 27, 1834. Deed, Edward W. Wright to Jacob B. Farmer, for “right title and interest in & unto the premises described in a Mortgage deed made by Edward Gates of Stow to Cyrus Hosmer my late guardian,” July 6, 1835. Bond, James Barrett to Jacob B. Farmer, June 20, 1836. Relates to two bonds sold by Barrett to Farmer and given by Farmer to Sumner Farrar, and to “two certain pieces of land, in . . . Concord . . . where said Farrar lately lived.” Bond, Jacob B. Farmer to William Monroe, June 19, 1838. Relates to “a . . . piece of land . . . in . . . Concord westerly of the house of . . . [Elisha] Farrar.” Guardianship document, appointing Jacob B. Farmer guardian of Freeman A. Stewart and Charles W. Stewart, “minors above the age of fourteen years,” and Bradford B. Stewart, “a minor under the age of fourteen years,” all children of Alexander Stewart (deceased), February 11, 1845. Mortgage deed, Jacob B. Farmer to Mary B. Stow, for three pieces of land in Concord (one “called the Garden”; one “on the westerly side of . . . Groton road”; the third “called the Adams piece, the French piece & the Dakin orchard”), February 12, 1846, with mortgage discharge recorded on reverse (April 1859). Deed, Elizabeth Prescott Barrett to James M. Prescott, for “Right, Title, Interest, Claim and Demand . . . in or to a . . . tract of land . . . in the town of Oxford and County of New Haven State of Connecticut . . . at a place called Phinegcook,” November 25, 1859. Issue of the Independent Ledger and the American Advertiser (Boston) for December 2, 1782. Page removed from The Liberal Christian for May 16, 1874, containing funeral sermon by John White Chadwick for Charles Pickering Gerrish. Photograph of Charles P. Gerrish taped above sermon. Inscribed in ink in upper margin: “Cousin Charles Gerrish’s funeral sermon / by his pastor John W. Chadwick.” Return to Top BOX 2: Scrapbook 2: Titled “Transactions of the Brown Family with Their Concord Neighbors, in Deeds, Contracts and Property Transfers from 1757-1859.” Hand-written in ink on title-page: “This collection consists of copies of original documents and [sic] typed and put together by Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop.” Contains typed transcripts of original documents (1757-1911, plus undated items archived elsewhere (many of them in Scrapbook I). Contents: Deed, Abishai Brown to Jacob Brown, for “Two Certain Tracts . . . in the Northerly Part of . . . Concord,” May 4, 1757. Deed, William Wilson to Jacob Brown, for “a certain Tract of land . . . in the northerly part of . . . Concord,” April 27, 1758. Deed, Abishai Brown to Jacob Brown, for “A Certain Tract of Land . . . in the Northerly Part of . . . Concord,” February 26, 1761. Deed, Abishai Brown to Jacob Brown, for “a certain piece of Woodland . . . in the Northerly part of Concord,” June 30, 1763. Deed, Abishai Brown to Jacob Brown, for “A Certain parcel . . . in Concord . . . commonly known by the name of Eleven Acre Field,” July 23, 1764. Deed, Captain Thomas Jones to Jacob Brown and Mary Brown, for “Ten acres of upland . . . in Concord . . . In the westerly Part of Said Town Lying westerly of a meadow Commonly Called Pond Meadow . . . all So [also] the westerly half of a Meadow Lott . . . Called Spring Meadow . . . in the Northerly Part of Said Town Lying in Great Meadow,” November 21, 1766. Deed, Benjamin and Submit Brown to Jacob Brown, for “Two . . . Tracts . . . in the Northerly Part of . . . Concord,” May 7, 1770. Deed, Benjamin Brown to Jacob Brown, for “all . . . Right Title Claim or Demand . . . in one . . . Tract . . . in the Northerly Part of . . . Concord,” March 15, 1771. Deed, Timothy and Abigail Wesson and Nathan Brown of Lincoln to Jacob Brown, for “a certain Tract . . . in the Northerly Part of Concord,” April 16, 1771. Deed, Ezekiel Brown of Dunstable, New Hampshire, to Jacob Brown, for “a Certain Tract . . . in the northerly Part of Concord,” July 15, 1771. Deed, David and Abigail Melvin to Jacob and Abishai Brown, for “A certain Tract . . . in the Northerly part of Concord,” February 24, 1774. Deed, Martha Eastabrooks [Estabrook] to Jacob Brown, for “Two Sarting peaces [pieces] or traks [tracts] of Land . . . in the Northerly part of . . . Concord,” April 1, 1776. Deed, Samuel and Huldah Edwards to Jacob Brown, for “all the Right titel or Intrest . . . in the house We now Live in and the barn & two peaces [pieces] of Land,” April 1, 1776. Bond, Josiah Meriam, Jr. to Jacob Brown, March 1, 1783. Deed, Amos Barrett to Jacob Brown, for “a . . . peace [piece] of pastur [pasture] Land . . . in the Northerly part of . . . Concord,” May 10, 1784. Deed, Peter Barrett to Jacob Brown, for “a . . . peace [piece] of paster [pasture] Land . . . in the Northerly part of . . . Concord,” May 10, 1784. Deed, Paul Adams and Rebecca Adams to Jacob Brown, for “a . . . piece of land . . . in . . . Concord,” March 25, 1806. Deed, Jonas Heald (“a deputy Sheriff under Joseph Hosmer Esquire Sheriff”) to Jacob Brown (“the highest bidder”), for “the right of equity in redemption in and to a . . . parcel of land . . . in the northerly part of . . . Concord with all the buildings thereon standing and privileges and appurtenances to the premises,” May 25, 1807. Deed, Nathaniel French to Jacob Brown, for “right title and interest in and to the real estate situated in . . . Concord of which I am seized and possessed consisting of one lot of land in the northerly part of Concord . . . with the buildings thereon,” May 30, 1807. Lease for twelve years, Jacob Brown to John Blanchard, for “a . . . piece of land . . . in . . . Concord where the said John Blanchard now lives,” October 12, 1812. Will of Jacob Brown, May 31, 1816. Guardianship document, appointing Daniel Wood guardian of Jacob Brown Farmer, “a minor upward of fourteen years of age,” February 25, 1817. Deed, Oliver Merriam (for himself and on behalf of Darius, Jesse W., and Ira Merriam as their guardian), Ruth B. Dakin, Mary Kathrens, Betsey Gordan, Jacob B. Merriam, Anna Merriam, Josiah Merriam and Lydia Merriam to Elizabeth Farmer (widow), for “a . . . tract of land . . . in the Northerly part of . . . Concord,” April 16, 1817. Deed, Mary Kathrens, Oliver Meriam, and Anna Merriam to Elizabeth Farmer (widow), for “A . . . tract of Land . . . in the Northerly part of . . . Concord,” April 28, 1817. Deed, Oliver Meriam (on behalf of minors Darius, Jesse W., and Ira Meriam) to Elizabeth Farmer (widow), for their interest in the real estate of Jacob Brown “in the Northerly part of . . . Concord,” June 10, 1817. Deed, John Buttrick to Elizabeth Farmer, for “A . . . tract of land . . . in the northwesterly part of . . . Concord,” January 30, 1821. Deed, Ephraim Meriam to Jacob B. Farmer, for “a . . . tract . . . of pasture land . . . in the westerly part of the Town of Hancock in the County of Hillsborough State of New Hampshire,” August 20, 1822. Bond, Jacob B. Farmer to Sumner Farrar, April 7, 1823. Relates to “a . . . piece of land . . . near Mr. Jonathan Hildreth’s in . . . Concord.” Pew deed, Edward Flint to Jacob B. Farmer, for pew no. 13 in the Concord meeting house, March 26, 1824. Bond, Jacob B. Farmer to Sumner Farrar, May 31, 1828. Relates to “land situated in the northardly parte of . . . Concord.” On reverse of this transcript: deed, Margaret Todd, Samuel Todd, and Robert Todd to Jacob B. Farmer, for “A . . . piece of land . . . in . . . Hancock [New Hampshire],” October 22, 1829. Deed, Elizabeth Farmer (widow) to Jacob B. Farmer, for “right, title and interest in and to a piece of pasture, orchard, and meadow land called the pond pasture and orchard . . . in the northerly part of . . . Concord,” June 20, 1831. On reverse of this transcript: deed, Elijah Wood, Elizabeth Wood, James Wood, and Rizpah Wood to Edward Farmer and Jacob B. Farmer, for “right title and interest, in and to a . . . piece of improved land . . . in the northerly part of . . . Concord . . . called the sixteen acre field,” July 1, 1834. Guardianship document, appointing Jacob B. Farmer guardian of Edward W. Wright, “a minor more than fourteen years of age,” January 27, 1834. Deed, Elijah Wood, Elizabeth Wood, James Wood, Rizpah Wood, and Edward Farmer to Jacob B. Farmer, for “right, title and interest in and to a . . . lot of improved land . . . in the northerly part of . . . Concord . . . called the Adams and French lot,” June 21, 1834. On reverse of this transcript: deed, Edward Farmer to Jacob B. Farmer, for “right, title, interest property, estate and demand . . . in and to . . . a . . . tract . . . of land . . . in the Northerly part of Concord . . . one undivided half of a parcel commonly called the sixteen acre piece,” June 8, 1835. Deed, Edward W. Wright to Jacob B. Farmer, for “right title and interest in & unto the premises described in a Mortgage deed made by Edward Gates of Stow to Cyrus Hosmer my late guardian,” July 6, 1835. Bond, James Barrett to Jacob B. Farmer, June 20, 1836. Relates to two bonds sold by Barrett to Farmer and given by Farmer to Sumner Farrar, and to “two certain pieces of land, in . . . Concord . . . where said Farrar lately lived.” Deed, John Dakin to Jacob B. Farmer, for “a . . . tract . . . of land . . . in the northerly part of . . . Concord,” April 20, 1838. Bond, Jacob B. Farmer to William Monroe, June 19, 1838. Relates to “a . . . piece of land . . . in . . . Concord westerly of the house of . . . [Elisha] Farrar.” Guardianship document, appointing Jacob B. Farmer guardian of Freeman A. Stewart and Charles W. Stewart, “minors above the age of fourteen years,” and Bradford B. Stewart, “a minor under the age of fourteen years,” all children of Alexander Stewart (deceased), February 11, 1845. Mortgage deed, Jacob B. Farmer to Mary B. Stow, for three pieces of land in Concord (one “called the Garden”; one “on the westerly side of . . . Groton road”; the third “called the Adams piece, the French piece & the Dakin orchard”), February 12, 1846, with mortgage discharge recorded on reverse (April 1859). Deed, Elizabeth Prescott Barrett to James M. Prescott, for “Right, Title, Interest, Claim and Demand . . . in or to a . . . tract of land . . . in the town of Oxford and County of New Haven State of Connecticut . . . at a place called Phinegcook,” November 25, 1859. “Essay on Ralph Waldo Emerson. (Found among Nellie Farmer’s papers in her writing.)”; undated. “Uncle Jacob Brown. Written by Jane Farmer Barrett of Concord.”; undated. “Amos Bronson Alcott. An Essay by Mrs. Jane Farmer Barrett written in Chicago, in 1904.” “Extracts from the “Record of a School” Exemplifying the General Principles of Spiritual Culture. (James Munroe & Co., Boston, 1835.)”; undated. Transcript concludes with “Extracts from Prof. Patten’s article in the Independent of Mar. 30, 1911.” Return to Top Scrapbook 3: Barrett and Farmer family scrapbook, compiled by Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop. Contains materials dated 1827-1904, plus undated items. The pages of the scrapbook are brittle and damaged. They are preserved in sleeves in a custom binding, and boxed. Contents (listed by types of material, not by order of appearance in volume): Personal correspondence, 1827-1904, plus undated: Primarily letters to or from James Atwater Barrett, Jane Farmer Barrett, and members of their families. Most letters are accompanied by typed transcripts. Correspondents include: Meliscent Hosmer/Meliscent Hosmer Farmer (mother of Jane Farmer Barrett); Rebecah/Rebecca Cogswell (sister of Meliscent Hosmer Farmer; aunt of Jane Farmer Barrett); Jacob Brown Farmer (father of Jane Farmer Barrett); Patty Barrett Hosmer (mother of Meliscent Hosmer Farmer; grandmother of Jane Farmer Barrett); Cyrus Hosmer (brother of Meliscent Hosmer Farmer; uncle of Jane Farmer Brown); George Washington Hosmer (brother of Meliscent Hosmer Farmer; uncle of Jane Farmer Brown); Martha Hosmer (sister of Meliscent Hosmer Farmer; aunt of Jane Farmer Brown); Nell Farmer (sister of Jane Farmer Brown); Elizabeth Prescott Barrett (mother of James Atwater Barrett); George Minot Barrett (father of James Atwater Barrett); Rebecca Minot Barrett (sister of James Atwater Barrett); Charles Pickering Gerrish (cousin of James Atwater Barrett); Lizzie/Mary Barrett Warren (sister of James Atwater Barrett); Samuel Longfellow; the Second Unitarian Sunday School of Brooklyn, New York; Ulysses S. Grant; Robert Todd Lincoln (as Secretary of War); George Frisbie Hoar; Ebenezer Rockwood Hoar; John White Chadwick; and James A. Holden. The scrapbook also includes a generic letter of recommendation (1852) by C. N. Goodnow and Barzillai Frost for Jane Farmer as a schoolteacher. Manuscripts, 1883, plus undated: Undated manuscript describing James Atwater Barrett’s military experience, 1861-1865; remarks (typed transcript only) delivered by James Atwater Barrett at the grave of Col. James H. Perry, May 30, 1883. Military correspondence and documents, 1864-1865, plus undated: Disability and leave-related documents for James Atwater Barrett (1864); ordnance invoices (1864 and 1865); and “Estimate of the Funds required for the Pay and clothing of the 21st Regiment SC Vols. for two months founded on the actual number of said Troops” (undated). Financial and property documents, 1828-1899: Receipt (1828) to Miss Hosmer (Meliscent Hosmer, later Meliscent Hosmer Farmer) for home furnishings purchased prior to marriage; a Treasury Department form (1886) made out to widow Jane Farmer Barrett about the settlement owed for military service by her deceased husband; deed to the Farmer family lot in Concord’s Sleepy Hollow Cemetery (1866, with 1899 addendum). Photographs, undated: 48th Regiment, N. Y. S. Volunteers; Fort Pulaski, Georgia; George Washington Hosmer. Printed ephemera, 1855-1883: Dedication program for Sleepy Hollow Cemetery, Concord (1855); small printed broadside, “Index to a View of Co. H 48th Regt. N. Y. S. V.” (1863); items relating to the 1875 celebration in Concord of the centennial of the Concord Fight; ); a handbill for a program on Fort Wagner and the “rebel prisons” (1882); a ticket to the opening ceremonies for the Brooklyn Bridge (1883); and a handbill hymn, “An Easter Hymn,” by John White Chadwick (undated). Return to Top Scrapbook 4: Titled “Family Letters and Papers Collected and Compiled by Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop Dau. of James Atwater Barrett and Jane Farmer.” Contains materials dated 1824-1886, plus undated items. This scrapbook has been deconstructed and the contents housed in sleeves in a three-ring binder. Meliscent Peterson Gill added photocopy of a letter held by the Concord Free Public Library to the contents as compiled by Emma Barrett Lothrop. Figure 3 - Jane (Jennie) Farmer Barrett Contents: The volume includes typed transcripts from original letters and documents archived elsewhere in original form, original letters and documents, and transcripts from some of the originals archived in this volume. This scrapbook consists largely of Civil War-era letters between James Atwater Barrett and his wife-to-be Jane (Jennie) Farmer and some later letters (from after their marriage), in original form (some with envelopes; some with the script inked over to enhance legibility) and/or as typed transcripts (some excerpted). Typed transcripts from letters and documents archived in the original elsewhere include letters from/to Meliscent Hosmer/Meliscent Hosmer Farmer, Rebecah/Rebecca Cogswell, Cyrus Hosmer, Jacob Brown Farmer, George Minot Barrett, Elizabeth Prescott Barrett, Rebecca Minot Barrett, “Friends at home [in Concord],” George Washington Hosmer, the Second Unitarian Sunday School of Brooklyn, New York, Charles Pickering Gerrish, Samuel Longfellow, Ulysses S. Grant, Robert Todd Lincoln, George Frisbie Hoar, and Ebenezer Rockwood Hoar (all in the original in Scrapbook 3), plus documents (an 1824 pew deed from Edward and Nancy Flint to Jacob Brown Farmer; an 1828 receipt to Meliscent Hosmer for household items and furnishings purchased prior to her marriage to Jacob Brown Farmer; military documents, among them disability- and ordnance-related items; James Atwater Barrett’s manuscript account of his war experience) found in the original mainly in Scrapbook 3. This scrapbook also holds a late nineteenth-century cabinet card photograph of the James Barrett, Esq./Major James Barrett House at 612 Barrett’s Mill Road in Concord; an Olympic Theatre (Fort Pulaski) handbill, dated June 19, 1863; an original muster-in document for James Atwater Barrett, November 10, 1863; an original disability document for James Atwater Barrett, July 1864; an original document titled “Return of Company H 48th Regt. N. Y. S. Vol. Infantry,” October 1863; and the typed transcript of an application for membership in the D. A. R. by Nellie Farmer (daughter of Jacob Brown Farmer and Meliscent Hosmer Farmer, and sister of Jane Farmer Barrett), undated. Meliscent Peterson Gill added a photocopied letter from James Atwater Barrett to “Cousin Story” (Joseph Story Gerrish), November 9, 1864, from the original in the William Munroe Special Collections of the Concord Free Public Library (Gerrish Family Papers). Scrapbook 5: Notebook titled “Family Letters and Papers Collected and Compiled by Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop Daughter of James Atwater Barrett and Jane Farmer.” Contains materials dated 1884-1886. Pages inserted in sleeves housed in a three-ring binder, in (primarily) chronological arrangement. Labels (“Family Letters & Papers” and “Collected & Compiled by E. J. B. Lothrop”) affixed to spine of notebook. Contents: Almost entirely transcripts from originals dated 1824-1886, overlapping to a significant extent with original and transcribed materials in Scrapbook 3 and Scrapbook 4. This notebook also includes a few original Civil War letters to or from James Atwater Barrett, one original military document, and one piece of printed ephemera—“Index to a View of Co. H 48th Regt. N. Y. S. V.” (1863), another copy of which is found in Scrapbook 3. Return to Top BOX 3: Scrapbooks 6a-6d (four items): Volumes containing items relating to James Atwater Barrett’s Civil War experience. Contents: 6a and 6b: “Through the War from Father’s Memoranda.” Two similar manuscript transcriptions by Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop from James Atwater Barrett’s account of his Civil War service, a list of battles and skirmishes in which the 48th Regiment N. Y. S. Volunteers engaged, and letters and documents from the period 1861-1865 (among them extracts from letters by James A. Barrett’s sister Emily Barrett Thompson). Illustrative vignettes by Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop interspersed throughout the manuscript pages of both versions. 6c and 6d: Two manuscript transcripts from James Atwater Barret’st Civil War diary entries and letters, 1861-1865. Include transcripts by Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop of Jane Barrett Farmer’s poem “In Memoriam,” to James Atwater Barrett (February 1887) and of James Atwater Barrett Civil War-era diary entries and letters to family, friends, and fiancée in Concord, 1861-1865. Illustrative vignettes by Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop interspersed throughout the manuscript pages. Scrapbook 7: A scrapbook of miscellaneous materials dated 1828 (in transcript)-[1954], plus much undated material. The pages of the scrapbook have been separated and inserted in sleeves in the original scrapbook binding. The pages on which materials are mounted are brittle. Label affixed to front cover: “Emma Jane’s Scrapbooks.” Contents (listed by types of material, not by order of appearance in volume): Letters: (Undated) manuscript note, Edward Jarvis Bartlett to “Dear Emma”; manuscript letters from James Atwater Barrett in Brooklyn to his wife Jennie and their children (who were visiting Concord), 1881; manuscript letters from Jane Farmer Barrett to her children while she was visiting Concord, 1898; hand-written note of appreciation for teaching at the Centre Grammar School in Bedford, Massachusetts, Bedford School Committee to Miss Nellie Farmer, December 11, 1865; manuscript letter, Phebe Farmer to step-granddaughters Nellie, Emma, and Clara Barrett, January 5, 1874; manuscript letter, Edwin Farmer to his sister Jennie, Nashville, Tennessee, November 27, 1863; (undated) manuscript letter, George Farmer Barrett to his sister Emma Jane Barrett, on N. H. Warren & Co. letterhead (Chicago); manuscript note, book dealer George E. Littlefield to Mrs. Jane F. Barrett, Boston, January 2, 1899, on letterhead, regarding Littlefield’s providing Mrs. Barrett with a copy of Shattuck’s 1835 history of Concord; typed letter, George S. Pense, Grand Army Hall and Memorial Association, regarding the Association’s willingness to accept “any papers or other Civil War relics you may care to send,” Chicago, February 3, 1939, on letterhead; manuscript letter, Nellie Prescott Barrett to mother Jane Farmer Barrett and siblings, [Ann Arbor], September 25, 1890; and manuscript note responding to news of the death of Nellie Farmer, Sherman Williams, Chief, University of the State of New York, State Department of Education, School Libraries Division, Albany, to Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop, January 8, 1907. Essays and presentations: Typed transcript of an essay by Jane Farmer Barrett, Chicago, 1904, and pieces by Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop—typed speech, “Abraham Lincoln, the Man”; typescript, “Art as an International Influence”; typescript, “The School of Tomorrow” (1945); “Republic of Paraguay. Introducing Customs of South America.” Transcripts: Manuscript transcript (copied directly onto scrapbook mounting leaf) of James Atwater Barrett obituary ([1885]); manuscript transcript (copied directly onto scrapbook mounting leaf) of Jacob Brown Farmer obituary ([1872]); manuscript transcript (copied directly onto scrapbook mounting leaves) of words written by Sophia Hawthorne (Mrs. Nathaniel Hawthorne) on the death of her husband, ([1864]); manuscript transcript (copied directly onto scrapbook mounting leaf) of excerpt from Memoirs of Margaret Fuller Ossoli (first published in 1852); manuscript transcript (copied directly onto scrapbook mounting leaf) of poem “In Memoriam” by George E. Davenport for Minot Pratt (who died in 1878); typed transcripts of Barrett and Farmer family documents available in original and transcribed forms in other scrapbooks in the collection (originals dated 1828, 1836); “Some sayings of Lincoln” copied in manuscript (copied directly onto scrapbook mounting leaf); typed transcript of prayer by Mrs. J. L. Jones, read at the funeral service of Jane Farmer Barrett in 1919; and typed transcript of September 3, 1902 minutes of the Board of Education, Glens Falls, New York, acknowledging the resignation of Nellie Farmer (principal of the Glens Falls High School) and expressing the Board’s appreciation of her efforts, accompanied by a note (transcribed in manuscript) expressing Nellie Farmer’s thanks for the honor. Newspaper and magazine clippings and clipped photographs: Items relating to William Penn, the Statue of Liberty, the Reverend George Washington Hosmer, the Concord School of Philosophy, Charles Pickering Gerrish (obituary), Minot Pratt (memorial poem by George E. Davenport), the Brooklyn Bridge, the 48th Regiment N. Y. S. Volunteer Infantry, the 1954 collapse of the steeple of the Old North Church in Boston (a result of Hurricane Carol), Henry Seidel Canby’s Thoreau (a review in Time, October 16, 1939), Paul Revere, Plymouth Rock, The Wayside in Concord and Wayside Inn in Sudbury, the Barrett Mill in Concord (from Christian Science Monitor), canoeing on the Concord River, George Washington and Betsy Ross, the courthouse/insurance building in Concord, New England churches and historical sites, Carrizo Gorge, “Our Flag in Pictures” (cartoon, Chicago Daily Tribune, February 14, 1953), and other topics. Photographs: Images of the 48th Regiment N. Y. S. Volunteers at Fort Pulaski, James Atwater Barrett’s soap-works in Brooklyn, the Barrett Mill in Concord, and Concord photo montage (Soldiers’ Monument, Emerson House—interior and exterior, Concord School of Philosophy, Ralph Waldo Emerson, North Bridge). Ephemera: Program for Christmas service of the First Parish Sunday School in Concord, December 26, 1886; business card for James Atwater Barrett, soap manufacturer; Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Brown Farmer, engraved invitation to the wedding of Jennie Farmer and James Atwater Barrett, December 26, 1865; program for twelfth annual commencement exercises, Chicago Kent College of Law (George Farmer Barrett was among those receiving a degree); ball program (November 12, 1884), Drum Corps, James H. Perry Post #14, at the Brooklyn Lyceum; (undated) program for “Lectures on Economic Subjects,” Henry George Association, Handel Hall, Chicago; printed brochure, “Greeting to the Builders and Friends of the Abraham Lincoln Center, Chicago,” 1905; certificate of qualification for Nellie Farmer to teach first grade, June 26, 1887; printed School Committee report including comment on the Centre Grammar School as taught by Miss Nellie Farmer; State of New York, Department of Public Instruction, Superintendent’s Office, award certificate to teacher Nellie Farmer, Glens Falls, New York, October 23, 1889; five engraved calling cards (four hand-colored); program for twelfth annual commencement exercises, Raymond School [Chicago], June 26, 1891; printed material relating to “Prof. Training Class, Chicago Normal School, 1897”; American National Red Cross certificate to Mrs. F. W. Peterson, accompanied by a typed letter, December 1945, Mrs. Lottie M. Meagher to Mrs. F. W. Peterson, on American Red Cross, El Centro (California) Chapter, letterhead; (undated) U. S. Army Air Forces certificate to Mrs. F. W. Peterson for service as a member of the Aircraft Warning Service; and Tea Room menu for Knott’s Berry Place, Buena Park, California, 1937. Postcards: Concord scenes—Walden Pond, North Bridge, First Parish meeting house, and Daniel Chester French’s Minute Man. Also includes: Verse (some manuscript, some typed) by several writers (among them Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop, Sherman Hoar, Sarah Louise Leete—including the poem “In Memoriam N. F. [Nellie Farmer]” by Leete); and locks of hair from children of James Atwater Barrett and Jennie Farmer Barrett. Scrapbook 8: Scrapbook titled “Concord Memories,” compiled by Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop. Scrapbook pages separated and inserted in sleeves housed in a three-ring binder, with photocopy of a separate item added (James Atwater Barrett’s undated manuscript account—prepared in the late 1860s—of his Civil War experiences). Only half of the original scrapbook cover survives. The scrapbook contents consist primarily of clippings (most undated; some dated or dateable to between [1894] and 1950, plus one ephemeral item (1888) and the undated Civil War account. Labels (“Emma Jane’s Scrapbook” and “Concord Memories”) affixed to cover. Contents: Clippings: Concord historical sites and historical sites in neighboring towns; Islam; Christopher Columbus; Benjamin Franklin; Edward Farmer (obituary); Miss Agnes Young Humphrey (retiring high school principal); Wayside Inn, Sudbury; “The Riddle of the Sphynx” by C. A. Shaw; Sherman Hoar and the Spanish-American War; a three-part article—“The Life of a Boy Sixty Years Ago”—by George Frisbie Hoar; Mrs. Thoreau’s ghost; poems by William Watson, John Greenleaf Whittier, and James Russell Lowell, and epigrams from a sermon by Dr. Frank Crane; John C. Friend; Rev. William Henry Savary (obituary); Lieutenant A. W. Wood of Concord; James K. Hosmer; early celebrations of the events of April 19, 1775; the first Patriots’ Day in Massachusetts ([1894]); April 19, 1950; Elizabeth Ford Millett (obituary; 1942); Mary O. Dakin (obituary); review of Esther Forbes’s Paul Revere and the World He Lived In ([1942]); excerpts from Ezra Ripley’s account of the Concord Fight; Colonial Inn history; Commander Charles Edward Tolman of Concord (missing in action, 1943); engagement announcement, Philip A. Davis and Ann Winship (1941); Barrett’s Mill; eulogy for George Frisbie Hoar by C. Q. Tirrell ([1904]); the Hoar family burial lot in Sleepy Hollow Cemetery; the Hoar family in Massachusetts; “400 Teachers Seek to Save Thoreau Home”; Paul Revere; review of Elizabeth Coatsworth’s South Shore Town ([1948]); Cyrus Hosmer (obituary); Evelyn M. Buck (obituary); article by T. Morris Longstreth on Daniel Chester French’s Minute Man (for the Christian Science Monitor); other sculptures by French; and “Uncle Ezra”/Pat Barrett. Ephemeral item: Program for Lake View High School graduation exercises (Chicago), June 21, 1888. Return to Top Scrapbook 9: Typed caption on first leaf: “Lest we forget: may these family stories freshen our interest in dear old Concord and help us to carry on. Collected by Emma Barrett Lothrop.” This scrapbook contains postcards, photographs, clippings, and two letters relating to Concord, Massachusetts, and to the Barrett, Brown, and Farmer families of Concord, interspersed with typed captions and extensive typed narrative on these and related subjects. Materials largely undated, those dated ranging from 1871 to 1938. Label (“Old Concord Family Memories”) affixed to front cover. Contents (listed by types of material, not by order of appearance in volume): Postcards: Mainly Concord scenes: the North Bridge, Barrett Farm, the James Barrett, Jr. House on Barrett’s Mill Road, the Concord Free Public Library, Wright Tavern, the April 19, 1775 diorama at the Concord Antiquarian Society (now Concord Museum), Peter Bulkeley’s bed and the Pre-Revolutionary Room at the Antiquarian Society, and the statue of Senator George Frisbie Hoar in Worcester. Photographs: Col. James Barrett’s gravestone in the Old Hill Burying Ground, Jane Farmer Barrett in James Atwater Barrett’s military uniform, houses and buildings associated with the Barretts in Concord and in Brooklyn, Jane Farmer Barrett portrait from a daguerreotype or ambrotype, James Atwater Barrett and Cuffe, Jacob Brown Farmer, Phebe Dakin Farmer, tablet to the Hoar family in the Old Raven Tavern in Gloucester, England, the Farmer Homestead on Lowell Road in Concord, the gravestone of Jane Farmer Barrett and James Atwater Barrett in Sleepy Hollow Cemetery, Alex Leete wearing the “Freedom Suit” of Jacob Brown, the North Bridge (colorized), the Battle Monument (cyanotype), Major Frederic Loring Lothrop (in uniform) and wife Emma Barrett Lothrop on the North Bridge, entrance to the Battle Ground, Daniel Chester French’s statue of the Minute Man, and household objects (belongings of Jacob and Mary Jones Brown, Meliscent Hosmer Farmer, and Phebe Dakin Farmer). Clippings: Items relating to Phebe Dakin Farmer, the Old Hill Burying Ground, Hunt-Hosmer House on Lowell Road (clipped photograph), the meaning of “Freedom Suit,” George Bradford Bartlett’s boathouse on the Concord River behind the Old Manse (periodical or book illustration), newspaper photograph of Revolutionary reenactors running across the North Bridge [1925], meeting house of the First Parish in Concord, and an article by Ruth Robinson Wheeler (Mrs. Caleb Henry Wheeler) about the Old Davis Store on Belknap Street. Letters: Engraved or printed letter, George Dakin to George M. Barrett, Buffalo, November 15, 1871, in gold ink, and typed October 28, 1905 letter (carbon copy) from Sarah Louise Leete, Providence, to George Tolman at the Concord Antiquarian Society regarding the donation to the Society of Jacob Brown’s “Freedom Suit” and military garb. Scrapbooks 10a and 10b: Two items, “Family Papers Collected by Emma Barrett Lothrop”and “Barrett,”containing photocopied transcripts and images appearing in other scrapbooks and notebooks; Contents: “Family Papers Collected by Emma Barrett Lothrop”: primarily material from the Civil War period. Photocopy of typed transcripts from original material and also a photocopied manuscript transcription of a letter from “Santa Claus” [James Atwater Barrett] to Jennie Barrett (1879); the undated poem “Mother” by Emma Barrett Lothrop; and a manuscript transcript of the printed 1865-1866 Bedford, Massachusetts, School Committee report expressing appreciation of teacher Nellie Farmer. “Barrett” (the title from a hand-written caption on the front cover; the bookplate of William Hosmer Peterson pasted to the inside of the front cover): photocopy of Barrett-, Hosmer-, and Farmer-related portraits and other images, and images of Concord historical sites and family-associated local sites; descriptions of Barrett furniture and artifacts; bibliography; gravestone and monument inscriptions; Barrett, Hosmer, Prescott, Farmer, Brown, and Bulkeley genealogy; a transcription of the 1875 James P. Swain letter to Charles Thompson accompanying the gift of the Millie Barrett scissors to the Concord Free Public Library; information about the name “Atwater”; information about James Atwater Barrett’s Civil War service; information about Major Joseph Hosmer; a poem for John F. Hosmer by Sherman Hoar (1893); Hoar family information; information about Jonathan Prescot[t]; information about Phebe Dakin Farmer (including an obituary) and Jacob Brown Farmer (obituary); transcript of a 1905 letter by Sarah Louise Leete accompanying the gift of Jacob Brown’s “Freedom Suit” and military clothing to the Concord Antiquarian Society; and information about the meeting house of the First Parish in Concord. Scrapbooks 11a and 11b (two small albums): Two copies of an undated Jane Farmer Barrett album compiled by Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop, consisting of typed transcripts of verse by and relating to Jane Farmer Barrett, and photographs of her. Return to Top BOX 4: Series II. Loose papers, documents, ephemera, and artifact, 1861-1913, plus undated items: Box 4, Folder 1: Military document (warrant), Captain James Barrett to Corporal Abishai Brown, June 17, 1797, with note by Brown on the reverse documenting that the directive in the warrant was executed, June 24, 1797. Box 4, Folder 2: Guardianship document, appointing Rufus Hosmer of Stow guardian of Mellicent Hosmer and Elizabeth Hosmer of Concord, “minors under the age of fourteen,” April 8, 1818. Box 4, Folder 3: State of North Carolina 1861 scrip (ten cents), Parker House (Boston) 1862 scrip (five cents) Box 4, Folder 4: Paper “Friendship” seal, with doves and roses, sent by Jane Farmer to James Atwater Barrett during the Civil War. Box 4, Folder 5: Military commission documents (on parchment) for James Atwater Barrett, July 31, 1863 as First Lieutenant, May 16, 1864 as Captain. Box 4, Folder 6: James Atwater Barrett pocket diary for 1864. Box 4, Folder 7: Original disability documents, James Atwater Barrett, July 8, 1864 and August 16, 1864 (printed forms with manuscript additions), signed by Dr. Josiah Bartlett. Box 4, Folder 8: Original muster-in document for James A. Barrett, September 12, 1864. Box 4, Folder 9: James Atwater Barrett diary, 1864-1865. Box 4, Folder 10: Nelson Sizer (“Practical Phrenologist,” Fowler and Wells Phrenological Cabinet, New York). Phrenological Character of James A. Barrett, September 12, 1865 (manuscript report in printed cover with manuscript additions). Box 4, Folder 11: Autograph book of Clara Hosmer Barrett, 1886-1891. Box 4, Folder 12: Typed transcript by Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop of Jane Farmer Barrett’s poem “In Memoriam,” written for James Atwater Barrett, Concord, February 1887, in paper cover. Box 4, Folder 13: Emma Jane Barrett (Lothrop) sketchbook, 1901. Box 4, Folder 14: Jane Farmer Barrett diary, 1902-1913, with earlier diary entries (1884-1886) transcribed at end of volume. Box 4, Folder 15: Undated manuscript note, James Atwater Barrett to daughter Nellie Prescott Barrett. Box 4, Folder 16: Printed paper seal, Harrison & Coover (Central Music Hall, State and Randolph, Chicago). Box 4, Folder 17: Four Adrian Insurance Company (Adrian, Michigan) scrips (two one-dollar, one two-dollar, one three-dollar), 18--. Box 4, Folder 18: Empty envelope addressed to Miss Lizzie Warren, Concord (postmarked New York). Box 4, unfoldered: Watch chain made from braided hair of Jane Farmer Barrett (boxed). Box 4, unfoldered: Nineteenth-century colored map (undated) of New York City; printed on paper, mounted on cloth. Damaged (in two pieces). Return to Top BOX 5: Series III. Visuals (loose portraits and photographs, photograph albums), [1816] (in copy form)]-1961 (clipping mounted in album): Portrait photographs in cases or frames: Small Box 1: miniature portrait of an unidentified young man in a metal and glass pendant; portrait of Jane Farmer Barrett as a young woman; portrait of Jane Farmer Barrett in Civil War hat and jacket. Small Box 2: portrait of Elizabeth Prescott Barrett, wearing elaborate lace cap; portrait of brothers George and James Atwater Barrett as young men. Small Box 3: portrait of George Barrett as a boy; portrait of James Atwater Barrett as an adolescent. Small Box 4: portrait possibly of Emily Barrett Thompson; portrait of an unidentified young man. Small Box 5: portrait of an unidentified young woman in a bonnet; portrait of an unidentified young woman with a cravat. Unboxed: framed black-and-white photographic reproduction of oil portrait (on panel) of Major Joseph Hosmer, painted in 1816 by Ethan Allen Greenwood. (Original painting held by the Concord Free Public Library.) Tintypes: Two portraits, one of a man, one of a woman—the grandfather and grandmother of either James Atwater Barrett or Jane Farmer Barrett. Portrait of Carrie Barrett at about eight months, Brooklyn, [ca.1867]. Portrait of Jane Farmer Barrett holding baby son George Farmer Barrett, Brooklyn, [ca. 1870]. Portrait of James Atwater Barrett, [1870s]. Portrait of Nell Prescott Barrett at about age two, [ca. 1873]. Portrait of Nell Prescott Barrett holding a baby sibling, Brooklyn, [mid-1870s]. Portrait of Nell Prescott Barrett as a young child, Brooklyn, [mid-1870s]. Portrait of Emma Jane Barrett at about four months, [ca. 1873]. Portrait of Clara Hosmer Barrett at about four months, [ca. 1877]. Portrait of an unidentified adolescent boy. Portrait of unidentified child. Carte de visite portraits: Barrett, James Atwater, in military uniform (W. E. James, Brooklyn), [1860s]. Barrett, Jane (Jennie) Farmer (Miller & Rowell, Boston), [1860s]. Barrett, Rebecca Minot, sister of James Atwater Barrett (T. R. Burnham, Boston), [1860s]. Barrett, Rebecca Minot, sister of James Atwater Barrett (A. Sonrel, Boston), [1860s]. Barrett, Rebecca Minot, sister of James Atwater Barrett, another pose from the same sitting (A. Sonrel, Boston), [1860s]. Two copies. Bates, Mary Covington (Mrs. George Bates). Brown, Lucy, “Hersey’s sister” (Whipple, Boston), [1860s]. Brown, Mrs. William (J. C. Spooner’s Picture Palace, Springfield, Massachusetts), [1860s]. Farmer, Edward, “cousin,” in military uniform (Miller & Rowell, Boston), [1860s]. Farmer, Edwin, Jane’s brother, in military uniform (Miller & Rowell, Boston), [1860s]. Farmer, Henry, Jane’s brother (Miller & Rowell, Boston), [1860s]. Farmer, Henry, Jane’s brother, another pose from the same sitting (Miller & Rowell, Boston), [1860s]. Farmer, Leonard, Edward’s son (Miller & Rowell, Boston), [1860s]. Top of card cut off; image unaffected. Farmer, Lizzie, Edward’s daughter (Miller & Rowell, Boston), [1860s].Top of card cut off; image unaffected. Farmer, Mary, Edward’s daughter (Frank Rowell, Boston), [1865]. Griffin, Sarah Wood, “Cousin” (Charles S. Rawson, Brooklyn). Hosmer, Carrie (C. T. Sylvester, Boston), [1860s]. Hosmer, Eliza (Black & Case, Boston), [1860s]. Hosmer, Henry J., “son of Cyrus.” Two copies. Top of one copy cut off; image unaffected. Hosmer, Rev. Herbert, “(cousin) Washington Hosmer’s son.” Farmer, Jennie Smith (Mrs. Edwin Farmer), Jane’s sister-in-law (Christmas, Photographer, Mansfield, Ohio). Leete, Elizabeth Farmer (Mrs. George F. Leete), Jane’s sister (Coleman & Remington, Providence, Rhode Island). Leete, George Farmer, Jane’s brother-in-law (Coleman & Remington, Providence, Rhode Island). Leete, Martha (Mattie) Farmer, second wife of Charles L. Leete, brother of George F. Leete (Howard, [New York]). Prescott, Minott, “Bronxville” (E. A. Lewis, New York), [1870s]. Prescott, Mrs. Minott (E. A. Lewis, New York), [1870s]. Swain, Mrs. J. P., “sister of Mrs. Wood” (E. A. Lewis, New York), [1870s]. Thompson, Emily Augusta Barrett, sister of James Atwater Barrett (J. W. Black, Boston), [ca. 1864]. Warren, Mary Prescott Barrett (Mrs. Nathan Henry Warren), sister of James Atwater Barrett (G. L. Hurd, Providence, Rhode Island). Witherle, Mollie Wood, “cousin” (Miller & Rowell, Boston), [1860s]. Two copies. Wood, Ella Skinner, Mrs. John Wood (Marshall & Co., Boston). Wood, Ellen Prescott, Mrs. William Wood, “your father’s cousin” (E. A. Lewis, New York), [1870s]. Wood, John Farmer, “cousin” (The London Stereoscopic and Photographic Company). Wood, John Farmer, “son of James Wood & Rispah Farmer Wood” (Marshall & Co., Boston). Two copies. Wyman, Mr., “of Brooklyn N. Y. Called father of 48th Reg.” (Williamson, Brooklyn). Unidentified young man (Manchester Bros., Providence, Rhode Island). Cabinet card portraits: Barrett, Charles Gerrish, son of James and Jane (C. H. Jordan, Brooklyn), [1875 or 1876]. Farmer, Nell, Jane’s unmarried sister, and a teacher (Taft, Glens Falls, New York). Barrett, George Farmer, son of James and Jane, father of Clara (Varney, Chicago). Prints on paper (some mounted): Barrett, George Farmer, son of James and Jane, father of Clara. Mounted on card stock. Barrett, George Henry, brother of James Atwater Barrett, “a miner.” Barrett, James Atwater Barrett, and Cuffe, both in uniform, [1863]. Barrett, Jane Farmer, as a young woman: copy image photographed from cased image in Small Box 1, [1860s]. Barrett, Jane Farmer in later years, “grandmother to James, William and Dorothea.” Two versions from the same sitting. Both oval portraits pasted to card stock. Barrett, Jane Farmer in later years, seated, smiling broadly. Barrett, Jane Farmer in later years, outside, wearing bonnet, carrying flowers. Photograph mounted pasted to card stock. Barrett, Jane Farmer, outside, [1915]. Farmer, Abby Buttrick, “cousin” (copy image from carte de visite portrait). Farmer, Edwin, Jane’s brother (small oval head-and-shoulders portrait, mounted on paper). Hosmer, Henry J., “mother’s cousin,” photographed from a painting. Lothrop, Emma Jane Barrett, packet of twelve photographs, plus a second copy of one of them, from girlhood to old age. Includes both formal portraits (among them studio portraits by Gibson Art Galleries and by Hartley Portraits of Chicago), some mounted on heavy stock, and some of Emma Jane with others (Anna Gerding Kustner, later Smith, Dr. Frederick W. Lothrop), [ca. 1885-ca. 1955]. Peterson, Clara Hosmer Barrett (Mrs. Frederick W. Peterson), daughter of James and Jane. Peterson, Clara Hosmer Barrett, (Mrs. Frederick W. Peterson), daughter of James and Jane, 1904. Oval portrait. Peterson, Clara Hosmer Barrett (Mrs. Frederick W. Peterson), daughter of James and Jane, with mother Jane Farmer Barrett holding granddaughter Dorothy Peterson, 1915. Peterson, Clara Hosmer Barrett, (Mrs. Frederick W. Peterson), daughter of James and Jane outdoors, standing to the right; her mother Jane Farmer Barrett in the center and sister Nell Prescott Barrett to the left, holding Dorothy Peterson; young James Barrett Peterson and William Hosmer Peterson standing front center and to the right, respectively, 1915. Peterson, Clara Hosmer Barrett, (Mrs. Frederick W. Peterson), daughter of James and Jane, with Frederick Lothrop (at left) and Dr. Frederick Peterson (at right). “Taken at breakfast at Cherry Knoll.” Wood, George, “Charlotte’s brother,” outside, taken December 1, 1908, by Miss S. E. Wood, Danville (Contra Costa County, California). Shows orange, walnut, and palm trees in the background. Barrett home, Concord: Packet of six late nineteenth-/early twentieth-century photographs (five of them mounted on heavy card stock) of the James Barrett, Esq./Major James Barrett House at 612 Barrett’s Mill Road in Concord. Farmer George Minot Barrett (son of Major James) lived here, and his son James Atwater Barrett was born and raised here. H. P. Moore commercially produced cartes de visite showing southern scenes, 1862-1864: Live Oak and Palmetto Trees, At Elliott’s, Hilton Head, S. C. Nursery at Elliott’s, Hilton Head, S.C. Slaves of Rebel Gen. T. F. Drayton, Hilton Head, S. C. Sutler’s Row, Hilton Head, S. C. 1864. Hospital, Hilton Head, S. C. J. E. Seabrook’s House, from the Wharf, Edisto Island, S. C. Fish Pond, Seabrook’s, Edisto Island, S. C. Sweet Potato Planting, at Hopkinson’s, Edisto Island, S. C. Secesh Gun, Fort Welles, Port Royal, S. C. Forward Pivot Gun, 200 lb. Rifle, U. S. Ship Wabash. Deck of U. S. Ship Wabash, Port Royal Harbor, S. C. May, 1863. Deck of U. S. Ship Vermont, Port Royal Harbor, S. C. Contrabands aboard U. S. Ship Vermont, Port Royal, S. C. Pivot Gun and Crew, U. S. Ship Pocahontas, Edisto River, S. C. April 1862. Fort Pulaski, Ga. Fort Pulaski, Ga., 1863. Entrance from the Demilune. Fort Pulaski, Ga. Demilune from the Sprague Gun. A similar view (lacks printed label on the reverse). Fort Pulaski, Ga. 48th Regiment N. Y. S. Vols. Light House, Tybee Island, Ga. Martello Tower, Tybee Island, Ga., Built in 1537, by the Spanish. Other commercially distributed cartes de visite (miscellaneous subjects): J. W. Black (Boston), photograph of a tower, labeled on the front in manuscript, “Fort at Newport,” [1860s]. J. E. Tilton & Co. (Boston), portrait of Ralph Waldo Emerson, “Photographed by Black,” [1860s]. J. W. Black (Boston), portrait of Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes with microscope, [1860s]. Gen. Washington (from an engraved portrait; maker unidentified). President Lincoln & Family (from a print; maker unidentified). A. Lincoln. President of the U. S. (from an engraved portrait; maker unidentified). E. & H. T. Anthony (New York), portrait of General Quincy Adams Gilmore in uniform, “From Photographic Negative by Brady,” [1860s]. E. & H. T. Anthony (New York), portrait of General George Crockett Strong in uniform, “From Photographic Negative by Brady,” [1860s]. School scene (uncaptioned; from a print; maker unidentified). Photograph albums: “Old Concord and Barrett Photos” (title from label affixed to cover): Primarily early twentieth century photographs with hand-written captions. One 1904 “Gibson girls” newspaper illustration laid in; one clipping dated 1961 pasted in long after compilation of the album. Typed transcript of “Concord Float Song” by George Bradford Bartlett pasted to reverse of final leaf and inside of back cover. Includes several photographs by James Tolman. Subjects represented in images: Concord historical sites, including Daniel Chester French’s Minute Man Statue, Battle Monument, North Bridge (the concrete version constructed in 1909), Emerson House, Wayside, Old Manse, Samuel Hoar House (Main Street), Concord Antiquarian (Reuben Brown) House, “Bullet Hole House,” Orchard House, Concord School of Philosophy (Hillside Chapel), the “Yellow House” (Thoreau/Alcott House, Main Street), First Parish meeting house, Wright Tavern, the James Barrett, Jr. House on Barrett’s Mill Road, Monument Square (Civil War monument and courthouse/insurance building), gravestones in the Old Hill Burying Ground and Sleepy Hollow Cemetery, and the Melvin Memorial in Sleepy Hollow. Also includes meadow and farm scenes, photographs of the Concord and Assabet Rivers and of Egg Rock (the confluence of the Sudbury and Assabet Rivers, where the Concord River begins), Fairyland, several portraits (Amos Bronson Alcott, Louisa May Alcott, and “Cousin Story Gerrish” [Joseph Story Gerrish]). Other subjects: historic sites and the Cary Library in Lexington, historic sites in Salem, and images of Coffin’s Beach, Gloucester. “Concord, Mass.” ([circa 1895]-1959, mainly undated; title from manuscript caption on first page of album): Subjects represented in images: the North Bridge; Daniel Chester French’s Minute Man; the avenue to the North Bridge and battleground area; the Battle Monument; the Hemlocks on the Assabet River; the Mill Brook (Lowell Road); Nashawtuc Bridge; the Concord River from Flint’s Bridge; the George Bradford Bartlett marker near the confluence of the Sudbury and Assabet Rivers; the Sudbury River from Nashawtuc; Fairyland; “The Hosmer Road”; the Three-Arch Bridge on the Sudbury River; Concord High School; Emerson House; Old Manse; Orchard House; the meeting house of the First Parish in Concord; the meeting house of the First Parish engulfed in flames (1901; a dramatic and unique photograph); the charred ruins of the First Parish; the Civil War monument; the Concord Free Public Library; the Farmer Homestead (Lowell Road); the Barrett Homestead (Barrett’s Mill Road); colorized postcard showing the old Middlesex Hotel, sent to Nellie Farmer in Buffalo; Barrett and Lothrop gravestones; sites in Plymouth, Salem, and Cape Ann (Massachusetts); the Niagara Falls area; the Pan American Exposition (Buffalo, 1901) at night; “Pawtucket Cousins”; Ashley and Elizabeth How; Donald Johnston; “Peggy and Don”; Ronnie Brett (May’s grandson), Concord; Winthrop and Ivan Wood, Concord; and the Lowell Road home of May and Phil Davis (incorporated into a Christmas card). Return to Top BOX 6: IV. Books and pamphlets, 1791-1948: Balfour, Graham. The Life of Robert Louis Stevenson . . . (London: Methuen & Co. Ltd., [1911]). Bartlett, George Bradford. Verses Written for the Concord Home for the Aged . . . ([Concord: no printer or publisher named, between 1886 and 1890?]). Bible. The Holy Bible, Containing the Old and New Testaments: Together with the Apocrypha: Translated Out of the Original Tongues, and With the Former Translations diligently Compared and Revised, By the special Command of King James I, of England. With Marginal Notes and References . . . (Worcester, Massachusetts: Isaiah Thomas, 1791). Barrett family Bible, with a manuscript “Family Record of Marriage, and Births of Children” (1792-1875) between the Apocrypha and the New Testament. Condition poor. The Bouquet, or Spirit of English Poetry. Third Edition (Philadelphia: Henry F. Anners, [no date of publication]). Pencil inscriptions and notes by young Nellie Prescott Barrett on front free endpaper and front lining leaf. Browning, Elizabeth Barrett. Poems of the Intellect and the Affections . . . Elegantly Illustrated (Philadelphia: E. H. Butler & Co., 1867). Inscribed in ink on front lining leaf: “Nellie P. Barrett”; below this, in pencil, “To James from / Mother.” Binding damaged. Browning, Robert. The Complete Poetic and Dramatic Works of Robert Browning. Cambridge Edition (Boston; New York: Houghton, Mifflin and Company; The Riverside Press, Cambridge, copyright 1895). Inscribed on blank recto of frontispiece page: “Barrett / 6429 Jefferson Av.” Clipping (1926) and loose sheets of manuscript notes in pencil laid in. Bunyan, John. The Pilgrim’s Progress from This World to That Which Is to Come . . . (New York: Thomas Y. Crowell & Co., [no date of publication]). Front cover and spine detached. Centennial Pocket Album 1776 1876 (New York: Centennial Album Co., [1876]). Damaged copy; missing two plates. Chaucer, Geoffrey. The Works of Geoffrey Chaucer. Edited by Alfred W. Pollard, H. Frank Heath, Mark H. Liddell, W.S. McCormick. [From head of title] The Globe Edition (London: Macmillan and Co., 1899). Inscribed in ink on front free endpaper: “F. W. Peterson.” Cheever, George B. The Journal of the Pilgrims at Plymouth, in New England, in 1620: Reprinted from the Original Volume. With Historical and Local Illustrations of Providences, Principles, and Persons . . . (New York: Published by John Wiley, 1848). Inscribed on front free endpaper: “L Lothrop.” Typed “Notes taken from lectures” tipped to a back lining leaf. Manuscript notes in ink on back paste-down endpaper. Front cover detached. Concord (Massachusetts). Proceedings at the Centennial Celebration of Concord Fight, April 19, 1875 (Concord: The Town, 1876). Inscribed on half-title in pencil (all but last line inked over): “Emma J. Barrett / 621 E. 65th st. Chicago / Given to me by Uncle Charles / Thompson who said it was / very valuable. / James Barrett Peterson.” In home-made cloth wrapper (orginally issued in paper wrapper). Concord (Massachusetts). Trustees of Town Donations. Annual Report of the Trustees of Town Donations of the Town of Concord, Massachusetts For the Year Ending December 31, 1916 (Concord, Massachusetts: Thomas Todd Co., Printers, [1917]). In printed paper wrapper. Concord Free Public Library (Concord, Massachusetts). Concord Free Public Library Seventy-Fifth Anniversary, October 1, 1948 (Concord: Members of the Library Corporation in conjunction with the Library Committee, 1948). In printed paper wrapper. Emerson, Ralph Waldo. Essays by Ralph Waldo Emerson. Illustrated (New York; London: Merrill and Baker, [no date of publication]). Stamped on front free endpaper: “F. L. Lothrop / May 10, 1906,” with “Chicago, Ill.” added in manuscript (in ink) between the two stamped lines. Newspaper clipping pasted to front paste-down endpaper; clipped magazine article tipped to back paste-down endpaper. Emerson, Ralph Waldo. Essays by Ralph Waldo Emerson. First and Second Series. Complete in One Volume (New York: A. L. Burt Company, [no date of publication]). Inscribed in pencil on front free endpaper: “C. H. B.” Emerson, Ralph Waldo. Poems by Ralph Waldo Emerson. Household Edition (Boston; New York: Houghton, Mifflin and Company, copyright 1904). Inscribed in ink on front free endpaper: “To Fred / from / Clara / Jan. 1-1906.” Goldsmith, Oliver. The Vicar of Wakefield . . . (New York: H. M. Caldwell Company, [no date of publication]). Inscribed on front lining leaf: “Goldwin Shephard.” Pencil notes on back free endpaper. Homer. The Iliad of Homer. Translated by Alexander Pope (New York: Hurst & Co., [no date of publication]). Inscribed in pencil on front free endpaper: “Clara H. Barrett. / 1b.” Hosmer, James Kendall. The Last Leaf. Observations, during Seventy-five Years, of Men and Events in America and Europe . . . (New York; London: G. P. Putnam’s Sons; The Knickerbocker Press, 1912). Inscribed on front-free endpaper: “To William from Mother.” Inscribed in ink on printed front lining leaf (list of books by J. K. Hosmer), under Hosmer’s name: “(a dear cousin of Grandmother Barrett).” Longfellow, Henry Wadsworth. The Complete Poetical Works of Henry Wadsworth Longfellow. Household Edition. With Two Hundred and Seventy Illustrations (Boston; New York: Houghton, Mifflin and Company, copyright 1902). Longfellow, Henry Wadsworth. The Poetical Works of Henry Wadsworth Longfellow (Boston; New York: Houghton, Mifflin and Company, copyright 1883). Inscribed in ink on front free endpaper: “Emma Peterson.” Notes in pencil on back paste-down endpaper. Several gatherings detached. Return to Top BOX 7: Macdonald, Loren B. Easter Sermon . . . After the Burning of the Meeting House of the First Parish in Concord, Massachusetts. The Passing of the Old Meeting House[—]A Poem by Edward Waldo Emerson ([Concord]: Privately printed, 1900). Combined with this in one wrapper (with pasted label on front): Dedication of the Restored Meeting House of the First Parish in Concord, Thursday, October 3rd., 1901. Concord, Massachusetts ([Concord: First Parish], 1901). Malick, John. “The Changing Theology and the Birth of the Nation—This Modern Sectarian Claim to the Americanism of the Founders” . . . Pulpit, First Unitarian Congregational Church of Cincinnati . . . ([Cincinnati: The Church], 1925. Printed self-wrapper. Inscribed in ink on front: “See Page 8 / John Lothrop / of Boston Church.” Memorial of George Washington Hosmer, D. D. Edited by his Children . . . ([No place of publication]: Privately Printed, 1882). Inscribed in pencil on front lining leaf: “Jenny F. Barrett / 1882 / 25 Lewis Av. / Brooklyn / N. Y.” Below this, in pencil, inked over, “To James from Mother.” Loose pages in front of volume. Myers, Alfred E. In Memoriam. James Minot Prescott . . . Delivered in the Reformed Church at Bronxville, N.Y., Sunday, July 26, 1874 . . . ([No place of publication or publisher named, 1874]). Milton, John. Milton’s Paradise Lost, Books I. and II. With Introduction, Notes, and Diagrams, by Homer B. Sprague . . . (Boston: Ginn & Company, 1889). Pencil notes on back paste-down endpaper. [Old South Church (Boston): materials relating to the Old South Church in Boston, bound together (front cover stamped in gold: “Loring Lothrop”; binding damaged, front cover detached)]: Wisner, Benjamin B. The History of the Old South Church in Boston, in Four Sermons, Delivered May 9, & 16, 1830, Being the First and Second Sabbaths After the Completion of a Century from the First Occupancy of the Present Meeting House (Boston: Crocker & Brewster, 1830). “Plan of the Lower Floor of the Old South Meeting House, in Boston, 1730” bound in. Blagden, G. W. Our Vows to God. A Sermon Preached in the Old South Church, Boston, at the Celebration of the Lord’s Supper, April 6, 1856 . . . Published by Request (Boston: Press of T. R. Marvin, 1856). Sermon and Addresses, at the Installation of the Rev. Jacob M. Manning, as Associate Pastor of the Old South Church in Boston, March 11, 1857 (Boston: T. R. Marvin & Son, 1857). Manning, Jacob M. A New-Year’s Address Delivered Before the Boston Young Men’s Christian Association in the Old South Church, Sabbath Evening, January 2, 1859 . . . (Boston: Published by the Association; Printed by Damrell and Moore, 1859). Exercises at a Consecration of the Flag of the Union, by the Old South Society in Boston, May 1st, 1861 (Boston: Printed by Alfred Mudge & Son, 1861). Pastor’s Memorial. Twenty-Fifth Anniversaryof the Installation of George W. Blagden . . . as Pastor of the Old South Church and Society in Boston (Boston: Published for the Use of the Members, 1862). Manning, Jacob M. The Soldier of Freedom. A Sermon Preached Before the Officers of the Forty-Third Regiment, M. V., in the Old South Church, Boston, Sunday Morning, Oct. 5, 1862 . . . Printed for the Use of the Regiment (Boston: J. E. Farwell and Company, Printers, 1862). Report of the Superintendent of the Chambers Street Chapel, Boston. April, 1863 (Boston: Wright & Potter, Printers, 1863). Submitted by Lothrop Loring, Superintendent of the Chambers Street Chapel. Chronicles of Old South Church, Being the Third Congregational Church in Boston. September 1st, 1861 (Boston: Alfred Mudge and Son, Printers, 1863). Palmer, Abraham J. The History of the Forty-Eighth Regiment New York State Volunteers, in the War for the Union. 1861-1865 . . . Illustrated . . . (Brooklyn, N. Y.: Published by the Veteran Association of the Regiment, 1885; for sale by Charles T. Dillingham, New York). Two copies, both including added materials. One includes added photographs, clippings, a printed letter (February 8, 1883) by James Atwater Barrett to “Comrade” regarding subscriptions to Palmer’s newly completed regimental history, an 1864 manuscript list of deceased soldiers of the Forty-Eighth Regiment at Andersonville, and a January 18, 1886 letter of sympathy from the George C. Strong Post, No. 534, to the recently widowed Jane Farmer Barrett. The other bears the bookplate of Margaret and James Peterson, the inscriptions “To / Nelly P. Barrett / from Mother / Jan. 1, 1886” and “To / James and Margaret / from mother Clara / June 27, 1934,” added clippings, and a printed handbill of the lyrics to “America” (“My Country ‘Tis of Thee”). [Pamphlets gathered together in home-made paper wrapper (front of wrapper detached)]: Societas Concordiae et Amicitiae. Address and Poem Delivered at the First Anniversary of the S. C. A., Concord, October 4th, 1856 ([Concord, Massachusetts]: Published by the Society for Private Distribution, 1856). Chadwick, John W. Green Pastures and Still Waters. A Sermon . . . 1889-90. October (Boston: George H. Ellis, [1889/1890]). Inscribed on title-page: “J. F. Barrett.” Emerson, Ralph Waldo. A Historical Discourse, Delivered Before the Citizens of Concord, 12th September, 1835, on the Second Centennial Anniversary of the Incorporation of the Town . . . Republished by Request (Boston: For Sale by W. B. Clarke; Press of Rand, Avery, and Company, [ca. 1875]). Inscribed in ink on front of wrapper: “J. A. Barrett / Brooklyn / N. Y.” Concord (Massachusetts). The Celebration in Concord of the One Hundredth Anniversary of the Birth of Abraham Lincoln. February the Twelfth 1909 (Concord: Printed by vote of the Town at the Annual Town Meeting held April 6th, 1909). Peattie, Elia W. Poems You Ought to Know. Selected by Elia W. Peattie . . . Illustrated by Ellsworth Young (Chicago; New York; Toronto; London and Edinburgh: Fleming H. Revell Company, copyright 1903). Inscribed in pencil on first printed page: “J. F. Barrett From Eliza Hosmer / Los Angeles Cal. / May-1908.” Verse in manuscript laid in. Clipping pasted to back paste-down endpaper. Porter, Jermain G. The Stars in Song and Legend . . . With Illustrations from the Drawings of Albrecht Dürer (Boston; London: Ginn & Company; The Athenaeum Press, 1901). Inscribed in ink on front free endpaper: “To Emma & Clara [“& Clara” crossed out] / Dec. 25, 1901.” Clipping on planets in the evening sky pasted in. Sheet of notes in ink and pencil tipped to back free endpaper. Prescott, William. The Prescott Memorial: or a Genealogical Memoir of the Prescott Families in America. In Two Parts . . . (Boston: Printed by Henry W. Dutton & Son, 1870). Inscribed “Mrs. J. F. Barrett / 4513 Lake Ave.” on front lining leaf. On the blank recto of frontispiece page: [in pencil] “J. A. Barrett” / [in ink] “James Atwater Barrett / Page 129.” Lengthy write-up of James Atwater Barrett’s Civil War experience begins on page 129. Rodeheaver, Homer A. Worth While Poems. Waif Gems of Verse Gathered from Here and There and Recited in Public Readings by Homer A. Rodeheaver (Chicago; Philadelphia: The Rodeheaver Company, 1916) In printed paper wrapper. Notes in ink on verso of title-page. Clipping (a poem by Belle Smith) laid in. Scott, Walter. The Lady of the Lake. A Poem in Six Cantos . . . With Notes and an Appendix from the Latest Edinburgh Edition (Chicago: M. A Donohue & Co., [no date of publication]). Pencil notes on front and back endpapers. Scott, Walter. The Poetical Works of Sir Walter Scott. Including Introduction and Notes. Complete Edition (New York: Thomas Y. Crowell & Co., [no date of publication]). Inscribed in pencil on front free endpaper: “Harry Peck [?] / from / Aunt Maria / 1888.” Title-page and another page near the beginning of the volume loose; spine damaged. Sears, Clara Endicott. Bronson Alcott’s Fruitlands. Compiled by Clara Endicott Sears. With Transcendental Wild Oats by Louisa M. Alcott (Boston; New York: Houghton Mifflin Company; The Riverside Press, Cambridge, 1915). Inscribed in ink on front free endpaper: “E. B. Lothrop / from Bernice / Xmas 1916.” Seymour, Mary. Chaucer’s Stories Simply Told . . . With Illustrations by E. M. Scannell (London; Edinburgh; New York: T. Nelson and Sons, 1884). Shakespeare, William. The Complete Dramatic and Poetical Works of William Shakspeare. Carefully Printed from the Text of the Latest Corrected Editions. Illustrated with Thirty Full-Page Engravings (New York: Hurst & Co., [no date of publication]). Inscribed in ink on front paste-down endpaper: “Goldwin T. Shephard.” A dried clover laid in. Social Circle in Concord. The Centennial of the Social Circle in Concord. March 21, 1882 . . . (Cambridge: Printed at the Riverside Press, 1882). Three copies. One copy inscribed in pencil on front lining leaf: “Mrs. J. F. Barrett.” One copy inscribed in ink on front lining leaf: “To James and Margaret / from mother Clara / June 27-1934.” One copy (water-damaged) inscribed in pencil (beneath another inscription): “Mrs. J. F. Barrett / 237 E. 65th st / Chicago / . . . ” Souvestre, Emile. An Attic Philosopher in Paris . . . (New York: H. M. Caldwell Company, [no date of publication]). Tennyson, Alfred. The Poetical Works of Alfred Lord Tennyson, Poet Laureate (New York; Boston: Thomas Y. Crowell & Co., copyright 1885). Binding damaged. Tymms, Samuel. An Architectural and Historical Account of the Church of St. Mary, Bury St. Edmund’s . . . (Bury St. Edmund’s: Jackson and Frost; London: Simpkin and Marshall, 1854). Inscribed in pencil on front free endpaper: “Thompson.” Inscribed on a slip of paper tipped to front free endpaper: “The property of / Miss N. Farmer.” Slip of paper on which page references to the Barrett (Barret, Baret) family are recorded tipped to back paste-down endpaper. A photograph and a clipping (“Dec 1900”) laid in. Front and back covers and pages at front of volume detached. The Week-End Book (Bloomsbury: The Nonesuch Press, 1931). Inscribed in ink on back paste-down endpaper: “Stanley from Agnes- / March 1932.” Whittier, John Greenleaf. The Complete Poetical Works of John Greenleaf Whittier. Household Edition. With Illustrations (Boston; New York: Houghton, Mifflin and Company; The Riverside Press, Cambridge, copyright 1892). Inscribed in ink on front lining leaf: “F. W. Peterson”; clipping tipped to same lining leaf. Painted bookmark laid in. Volume damaged (pages at front detached; some detached and torn pages within). Whittier, John Greenleaf. The Poetical Works of John Greenleaf Whittier. Complete in Two Volumes. Volume II (Boston: Ticknor & Fields, 1864). Inscribed in ink on front lining leaf: “Miss Jenny Farmer. / with the best wishes / of your affectionate friend / E. A. B. Thompson.” Inscribed in pencil below this: “To James / from / Mother.” Front and back covers and pages at end detached. Wilde, Oscar. The Plays of Oscar Wilde (New York: H. S. Nichols, copyright 1914). “The Cosmopolitan Library.” Volume damaged (front and back covers and pages at front and back detached). Wood, Albert E. How Our Great-Grandfathers Lived. Read Before the Concord Antiquarian Society . . . (Concord, Massachusetts: Concord Antiquarian Society, [1902]). In printed paper wrapper. Condition poor. Return to Top Return to Special Collections Finding Aids Home BARRETT FAMILY COLLECTION, 1757-1961 (INCLUDING MUCH UNDATED MATERIAL) Vault A45, Barrett, Unit 4 Figure 1 - The James Barrett, Esq. House 612 Barrett's Mill Rd, Concord Extent: seven containers, occupying about 7.5 linear feet. Organization and arrangement: organized into four series: I. Scrapbooks and notebooks, containing materials dated 1757-[1954], plus undated items; II. Loose papers, documents, ephemera, and artifact, 1861-1959, plus undated items; III. Visuals (loose portraits and photographs, photograph albums), [1816] (in copy form)-1961 (clipping mounted in album); IV. Books and pamphlets, 1791-1948. Materials in Series I remain as compiled in scrapbooks and albums. Series II arranged chronologically. Items in Series III arranged in the following categories: portrait photographs in cases or frames; tintypes; carte de visite portraits; cabinet card portraits; prints on paper (some mounted); Barrett home, Concord, Massachusetts; H. P. Moore commercially produced cartes de visite showing southern scenes, 1862-1864; other commercially distributed cartes de visite (miscellaneous subjects); photograph albums. Items in Series IV arranged alphabetically by author or other filing term. Family history/biography: Humphrey Barrett (1592-1662) was born in Ashford Borough, Kent, England, and arrived in Concord, Massachusetts, around 1640 with his wife Mary (Hawes) Barrett and their children. Their son Humphrey (1630-1715) and his second wife Mary (Potter) Barrett had sons Joseph and Benjamin (1681-1728). Col. James Barrett (1710-1779) was one of the children of Benjamin and his wife Lydia (Minott) Barrett. On April 19, 1775, Col. Barrett commanded a regiment of militia and all Colonial troops present in Concord, and was also in charge of the supplies and ammunition that the Provincial Congress had ordered stored in Concord. James Barrett married Rebecca Hubbard in 1732 and lived in the farmhouse now numbered 448 Barrett’s Mill Road. James Barrett, Junior (1732-1799), a son of Col. James Barrett, married Millicent Estabrook in 1758. Their son Major James Barrett III (1761-1850) married Dorcas Minot in 1792. Farmer George Minot Barrett (1794-1873)—one of the children of James III and Dorcas—married Elizabeth Prescott in 1821. Their children: George Prescott Barrett (1822-1827); Rebecca Minot Barrett (1825-1879); Mary Prescott Barrett (1827-1878; married Nathan Henry Warren); Emily Augusta Barrett (1829-1906; married Charles Thompson); James Atwater Barrett (1832-1885; married Jane Farmer); and George Henry Barrett (1836-1897; married Isabella K. Green). George Minot Barrett and his family made their home in the present 612 Barrett’s Mill Road. Major James Atwater Barrett—whose papers form the core of this collection—was born and grew up in Concord. He moved to Brooklyn, New York, in the 1850s, and in 1861 enlisted as a sergeant in the Union Army, moving up the ranks through the Civil War, mustering out as a major in September 1865. He served with the 48th Regiment of New York State Volunteers. He participated in a great deal of active fighting in South Carolina, Florida, Virginia, and North Carolina, and was seriously wounded more than once. While stationed in the South, he corresponded with family and friends in Concord, and developed a close (albeit long-distance) relationship with teacher Jane Farmer (1836-1919), a daughter of Jacob Brown Farmer (a Concord farmer and a friend of Henry David Thoreau) and his wife Millicent Hosmer Farmer, who raised their family at what is now 761 Lowell Road. James Atwater Barrett survived the Civil War and married Jane (Jennie) Farmer in Concord at the end of 1865. The couple made their home in Brooklyn, where James ran a soap manufactory. The children of James and Jennie: Carrie Cushman Barrett (1866-1869); George Farmer Barrett (1869-1934; married Lucy Virginia Stuckey); Nellie Prescott Barrett (1871-1931); Emma Jane Barrett (1873-1965; married Frederick Loring Lothrop); Charles Gerrish Barrett (1875-1876); and Clara Hosmer Barrett (1877-1955; married Frederick W. Peterson). After the death of James Atwater Barrett in 1885, his widow took their three daughters to Concord (son George was already working by that point) and later moved to Chicago. Deeply devoted to family history, Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop looked after the family papers that had been cared for by her mother, transcribed fragile materials to safeguard their content, and distributed the originals to her sister Clara’s children (James Barrett Peterson, William Hosmer Peterson, and Dorothea Peterson Bell), who subsequently passed them on to the next generation—the Peterson cousins, who collectively made the decision to place them in the Concord Free Public Library. Scope and content: An organic collection of Barrett family papers, 1757-1961 (including much undated material). While generations of the family are represented in the collection, a major portion of it consists of the Civil War-era papers of James Atwater Barrett. Specific contents and material types included are described in detail in the container list below. Provenance: Items in the collection were stewarded by Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop, a daughter of James Atwater Barrett and Jane Farmer Barrett, and passed down to the children of Emma’s sister Clara and her husband, Dr. Frederick W. Peterson. Source of acquisition: Most items in the collection were presented to the Concord Free Public Library by Meliscent Peterson Gill, Leslie James Peterson, Linda J. Peterson, and Patricia Louise Peterson in 2017. Scrapbook 1 was presented by Meliscent Peterson Gill in 2011; the Barrett family Bible by the Peterson Barrett descendants in 2018; the 1797 warrant from James Barrett to Abishai Brown, 1818 guardianship document for Mellicent and Elizabeth Hosmer, printed In Memoriam for James Minot Prescott (1874), George Bradford Bartlett’s printed Verses Written for the Concord Home for the Aged ([undated; between 1886 and 1890?], and watch chain made from Jane Farmer Barrett’s hair in May 2019. Publication based on use of the collection: Leslie James Peterson, Linda J. Peterson, Meliscent Peterson Gill, and Patricia Louise Peterson, Ancestors in the Attic: James Atwater Barrett. Chronicles of a Civil War Union Soldier ([CreateSpace], 2017, copyright 2016). “A compilation of Civil War experiences using diary entries, letters and documents.” Notes and comments: Scrapbook 1 was accessioned in 2011 (AMC 204), the bulk of the gift in 2017 (AMC 267). The donors obtained a professional appraisal (by Skinner, Inc.) prior to making their 2017 gift. Some of the scrapbooks are in poor condition, their contents mounted on very brittle paper, and a number of the family books are also in fragile or damaged condition. The Original Hymn (Emerson’s “Concord Hymn”) in Scrapbook I was conserved and matted prior to use in exhibition in 2019 (it remains housed in the scrapbook from which it was dismounted). Processed by: Leslie Perrin Wilson; finding aid completed February 16, 2019; updated May 22, 2019. Series listing: I. Scrapbooks and notebooks, containing materials dated 1757-[1954], plus undated items II. Loose papers, documents, ephemera, and artifact, 1861-1959, plus undated items III. Visuals (loose portraits and photographs, photograph albums), [1816] (in copy form)-1961 (clipping mounted in album): portrait photographs in cases or frames carte de visite portraits cabinet card portraits prints on paper (some mounted) Barrett home, Concord, Massachusetts H. P. Moore commercially produced cartes de visite showing southern scenes, 1862-1864 other commercially distributed cartes de visite (miscellaneous subjects) photograph albums IV. Books and pamphlets, 1791-1948 Figure 2 - James Atwater Barrett and Cuffe, 1863 CONTAINER LIST I. Scrapbooks and notebooks, containing materials dated 1757-[1954], plus undated items Scrapbook 1: Compiled by Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop. Contains original documents, most of which appear in transcribed form in Scrapbook 2. This volume was donated by Meliscent Gill in 2011, in advance of the donation of the remainder of the Barrett family collection. Original Hymn [printed handbill/small broadside; first appearance in print of Ralph Waldo Emerson’s “Concord Hymn”] ([1837]). Myerson A4.1. Deed, Abishai Brown to Jacob Brown, for “Two Certain Tracts . . . in the Northerly Part of . . . Concord,” May 4, 1757. Deed, William Wilson to Jacob Brown, for “a certain Tract of land . . . in the northerly part of . . . Concord,” April 27, 1758. Deed, Abishai Brown to Jacob Brown, for “A Certain Tract of Land . . . in the Northerly Part of . . . Concord,” February 26, 1761. Deed, Abishai Brown to Jacob Brown, for “a certain piece of Woodland . . . in the Northerly part of Concord,” June 30, 1763. Deed, Abishai Brown to Jacob Brown, for “A Certain parcel . . . in Concord . . . commonly known by the name of Eleven Acre Field,” July 23, 1764. Deed, Captain Thomas Jones to Jacob Brown and Mary Brown, for “Ten acres of upland . . . in Concord . . . In the westerly Part of Said Town Lying westerly of a meadow Commonly Called Pond Meadow . . . all So [also] the westerly half of a Meadow Lott . . . Called Spring Meadow . . . in the Northerly Part of Said Town Lying in Great Meadow,” November 21, 1766. Deed, Benjamin and Submit Brown to Jacob Brown, for “Two . . . Tracts . . . in the Northerly Part of . . . Concord,” May 7, 1770. Deed, Benjamin Brown to Jacob Brown, for “all . . . Right Title Claim or Demand . . . in one . . . Tract . . . in the Northerly Part of . . . Concord,” March 15, 1771. Deed, Timothy and Abigail Wesson and Nathan Brown of Lincoln to Jacob Brown, for “a certain Tract . . . in the Northerly Part of Concord,” April 16, 1771. Deed, Ezekiel Brown of Dunstable, New Hampshire, to Jacob Brown, for “a Certain Tract . . . in the northerly Part of Concord,” July 15, 1771. Deed, David and Abigail Melvin to Jacob and Abishai Brown, for “A certain Tract . . . in the Northerly part of Concord,” February 24, 1774. Deed, Martha Eastabrooks [Estabrook] to Jacob Brown, for “Two Sarting peaces [pieces] or traks of Land . . . in the Northerly part of . . . Concord,” April 1, 1776. Deed, Samuel and Huldah Edwards to Jacob Brown, for “all the Right titel or Intrest . . . in the house We now Live in and the barn & two peaces [pieces] of Land,” April 1, 1776. Bond, Josiah Meriam, Jr. to Jacob Brown, March 1, 1783. Deed, Amos Barrett to Jacob Brown, for “a . . . peace [piece] of pastur [pasture] Land . . . in the Northerly part of . . . Concord,” May 10, 1784. Deed, Peter Barrett to Jacob Brown, for “a . . . peace [piece] of paster [pasture] Land . . . in the Northerly part of . . . Concord,” May 10, 1784. Deed, Paul Adams and Rebecca Adams to Jacob Brown, for “a . . . piece of land . . . in . . . Concord,” March 25, 1806. Deed, Jonas Heald (“a deputy Sheriff under Joseph Hosmer Esquire Sheriff”) to Jacob Brown (“the highest bidder”), for “the right of equity in redemption in and to a . . . parcel of land . . . in the northerly part of . . . Concord with all the buildings thereon standing and privileges and appurtenances to the premises,” May 25, 1807. Deed, Nathaniel French to Jacob Brown, for “right title and interest in and to the real estate situated in . . . Concord of which I am seized and possessed consisting of one lot of land in the northerly part of Concord . . . with the buildings thereon,” May 30, 1807. Lease for twelve years, Jacob Brown to John Blanchard, for “a . . . piece of land . . . in . . . Concord where the said John Blanchard now lives,” October 12, 1812. Two tax receipts (1813, 1815) from the Town of Concord to Jacob Brown and one receipt for duty paid on Brown’s chaise (1816). Two receipts to Jacob Brown for payment for medical care by Hurd & Bartlett (1815) and by Paul Kittredge (1816). Receipt to Jacob Brown from Samuel Barrett for sawing wood (1818, covering expenses generated between 1809 and 1816). Discharge of obligation, James Barrett as administrator of the estate of Sumner Farrar to Jacob B. Farmer (1836). Will of Jacob Brown, May 31, 1816. Guardianship document, appointing Daniel Wood guardian of Jacob Brown Farmer, “a minor upward of fourteen years of age,” February 25, 1817. Deed, Oliver Merriam (for himself and on behalf of Darius, Jesse W., and Ira Merriam as their guardian), Ruth B. Dakin, Mary Kathrens, Betsey Gordan, Jacob B. Merriam, Anna Merriam, Josiah Merriam and Lydia Merriam to Elizabeth Farmer (widow), for “a . . . tract of land . . . in the Northerly part of . . . Concord,” April 16, 1817. Deed, Mary Kathrens, Oliver Meriam, and Anna Merriam to Elizabeth Farmer (widow), for “A . . . tract of Land . . . in the Northerly part of . . . Concord,” April 28, 1817. Deed, Oliver Meriam (on behalf of minors Darius, Jesse W., and Ira Meriam) to Elizabeth Farmer (widow), for their interest in the real estate of Jacob Brown “in the Northerly part of . . . Concord,” June 10, 1817. Deed, John Buttrick to Elizabeth Farmer, for “A . . . tract of land . . . in the northwesterly part of . . . Concord,” January 30, 1821. Bond, Jacob B. Farmer to Sumner Farrar, April 7, 1823. Relates to “a . . . piece of land . . . near Mr. Jonathan Hildreth’s in . . . Concord.” Pew deed, Edward Flint to Jacob B. Farmer, for pew no. 13 in the Concord meeting house, March 26, 1824. Bond, Jacob B. Farmer to Sumner Farrar, May 31, 1828. Relates to “land situated in the northardly parte of . . . Concord.” Guardianship document, appointing Jacob B. Farmer guardian of Edward W. Wright, “a minor more than fourteen years of age,” January 27, 1834. Deed, Edward W. Wright to Jacob B. Farmer, for “right title and interest in & unto the premises described in a Mortgage deed made by Edward Gates of Stow to Cyrus Hosmer my late guardian,” July 6, 1835. Bond, James Barrett to Jacob B. Farmer, June 20, 1836. Relates to two bonds sold by Barrett to Farmer and given by Farmer to Sumner Farrar, and to “two certain pieces of land, in . . . Concord . . . where said Farrar lately lived.” Bond, Jacob B. Farmer to William Monroe, June 19, 1838. Relates to “a . . . piece of land . . . in . . . Concord westerly of the house of . . . [Elisha] Farrar.” Guardianship document, appointing Jacob B. Farmer guardian of Freeman A. Stewart and Charles W. Stewart, “minors above the age of fourteen years,” and Bradford B. Stewart, “a minor under the age of fourteen years,” all children of Alexander Stewart (deceased), February 11, 1845. Mortgage deed, Jacob B. Farmer to Mary B. Stow, for three pieces of land in Concord (one “called the Garden”; one “on the westerly side of . . . Groton road”; the third “called the Adams piece, the French piece & the Dakin orchard”), February 12, 1846, with mortgage discharge recorded on reverse (April 1859). Deed, Elizabeth Prescott Barrett to James M. Prescott, for “Right, Title, Interest, Claim and Demand . . . in or to a . . . tract of land . . . in the town of Oxford and County of New Haven State of Connecticut . . . at a place called Phinegcook,” November 25, 1859. Issue of the Independent Ledger and the American Advertiser (Boston) for December 2, 1782. Page removed from The Liberal Christian for May 16, 1874, containing funeral sermon by John White Chadwick for Charles Pickering Gerrish. Photograph of Charles P. Gerrish taped above sermon. Inscribed in ink in upper margin: “Cousin Charles Gerrish’s funeral sermon / by his pastor John W. Chadwick.” Return to Top Scrapbook 2: Titled “Transactions of the Brown Family with Their Concord Neighbors, in Deeds, Contracts and Property Transfers from 1757-1859.” Hand-written in ink on title-page: “This collection consists of copies of original documents and [sic] typed and put together by Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop.” Contains typed transcripts of original documents (1757-1911, plus undated items archived elsewhere (many of them in Scrapbook I). Deed, Abishai Brown to Jacob Brown, for “Two Certain Tracts . . . in the Northerly Part of . . . Concord,” May 4, 1757. Deed, William Wilson to Jacob Brown, for “a certain Tract of land . . . in the northerly part of . . . Concord,” April 27, 1758. Deed, Abishai Brown to Jacob Brown, for “A Certain Tract of Land . . . in the Northerly Part of . . . Concord,” February 26, 1761. Deed, Abishai Brown to Jacob Brown, for “a certain piece of Woodland . . . in the Northerly part of Concord,” June 30, 1763. Deed, Abishai Brown to Jacob Brown, for “A Certain parcel . . . in Concord . . . commonly known by the name of Eleven Acre Field,” July 23, 1764. Deed, Captain Thomas Jones to Jacob Brown and Mary Brown, for “Ten acres of upland . . . in Concord . . . In the westerly Part of Said Town Lying westerly of a meadow Commonly Called Pond Meadow . . . all So [also] the westerly half of a Meadow Lott . . . Called Spring Meadow . . . in the Northerly Part of Said Town Lying in Great Meadow,” November 21, 1766. Deed, Benjamin and Submit Brown to Jacob Brown, for “Two . . . Tracts . . . in the Northerly Part of . . . Concord,” May 7, 1770. Deed, Benjamin Brown to Jacob Brown, for “all . . . Right Title Claim or Demand . . . in one . . . Tract . . . in the Northerly Part of . . . Concord,” March 15, 1771. Deed, Timothy and Abigail Wesson and Nathan Brown of Lincoln to Jacob Brown, for “a certain Tract . . . in the Northerly Part of Concord,” April 16, 1771. Deed, Ezekiel Brown of Dunstable, New Hampshire, to Jacob Brown, for “a Certain Tract . . . in the northerly Part of Concord,” July 15, 1771. Deed, David and Abigail Melvin to Jacob and Abishai Brown, for “A certain Tract . . . in the Northerly part of Concord,” February 24, 1774. Deed, Martha Eastabrooks [Estabrook] to Jacob Brown, for “Two Sarting peaces [pieces] or traks [tracts] of Land . . . in the Northerly part of . . . Concord,” April 1, 1776. Deed, Samuel and Huldah Edwards to Jacob Brown, for “all the Right titel or Intrest . . . in the house We now Live in and the barn & two peaces [pieces] of Land,” April 1, 1776. Bond, Josiah Meriam, Jr. to Jacob Brown, March 1, 1783. Deed, Amos Barrett to Jacob Brown, for “a . . . peace [piece] of pastur [pasture] Land . . . in the Northerly part of . . . Concord,” May 10, 1784. Deed, Peter Barrett to Jacob Brown, for “a . . . peace [piece] of paster [pasture] Land . . . in the Northerly part of . . . Concord,” May 10, 1784. Deed, Paul Adams and Rebecca Adams to Jacob Brown, for “a . . . piece of land . . . in . . . Concord,” March 25, 1806. Deed, Jonas Heald (“a deputy Sheriff under Joseph Hosmer Esquire Sheriff”) to Jacob Brown (“the highest bidder”), for “the right of equity in redemption in and to a . . . parcel of land . . . in the northerly part of . . . Concord with all the buildings thereon standing and privileges and appurtenances to the premises,” May 25, 1807. Deed, Nathaniel French to Jacob Brown, for “right title and interest in and to the real estate situated in . . . Concord of which I am seized and possessed consisting of one lot of land in the northerly part of Concord . . . with the buildings thereon,” May 30, 1807. Lease for twelve years, Jacob Brown to John Blanchard, for “a . . . piece of land . . . in . . . Concord where the said John Blanchard now lives,” October 12, 1812. Will of Jacob Brown, May 31, 1816. Guardianship document, appointing Daniel Wood guardian of Jacob Brown Farmer, “a minor upward of fourteen years of age,” February 25, 1817. Deed, Oliver Merriam (for himself and on behalf of Darius, Jesse W., and Ira Merriam as their guardian), Ruth B. Dakin, Mary Kathrens, Betsey Gordan, Jacob B. Merriam, Anna Merriam, Josiah Merriam and Lydia Merriam to Elizabeth Farmer (widow), for “a . . . tract of land . . . in the Northerly part of . . . Concord,” April 16, 1817. Deed, Mary Kathrens, Oliver Meriam, and Anna Merriam to Elizabeth Farmer (widow), for “A . . . tract of Land . . . in the Northerly part of . . . Concord,” April 28, 1817. Deed, Oliver Meriam (on behalf of minors Darius, Jesse W., and Ira Meriam) to Elizabeth Farmer (widow), for their interest in the real estate of Jacob Brown “in the Northerly part of . . . Concord,” June 10, 1817. Deed, John Buttrick to Elizabeth Farmer, for “A . . . tract of land . . . in the northwesterly part of . . . Concord,” January 30, 1821. Deed, Ephraim Meriam to Jacob B. Farmer, for “a . . . tract . . . of pasture land . . . in the westerly part of the Town of Hancock in the County of Hillsborough State of New Hampshire,” August 20, 1822. Bond, Jacob B. Farmer to Sumner Farrar, April 7, 1823. Relates to “a . . . piece of land . . . near Mr. Jonathan Hildreth’s in . . . Concord.” Pew deed, Edward Flint to Jacob B. Farmer, for pew no. 13 in the Concord meeting house, March 26, 1824. Bond, Jacob B. Farmer to Sumner Farrar, May 31, 1828. Relates to “land situated in the northardly parte of . . . Concord.” On reverse of this transcript: deed, Margaret Todd, Samuel Todd, and Robert Todd to Jacob B. Farmer, for “A . . . piece of land . . . in . . . Hancock [New Hampshire],” October 22, 1829. Deed, Elizabeth Farmer (widow) to Jacob B. Farmer, for “right, title and interest in and to a piece of pasture, orchard, and meadow land called the pond pasture and orchard . . . in the northerly part of . . . Concord,” June 20, 1831. On reverse of this transcript: deed, Elijah Wood, Elizabeth Wood, James Wood, and Rizpah Wood to Edward Farmer and Jacob B. Farmer, for “right title and interest, in and to a . . . piece of improved land . . . in the northerly part of . . . Concord . . . called the sixteen acre field,” July 1, 1834. Guardianship document, appointing Jacob B. Farmer guardian of Edward W. Wright, “a minor more than fourteen years of age,” January 27, 1834. Deed, Elijah Wood, Elizabeth Wood, James Wood, Rizpah Wood, and Edward Farmer to Jacob B. Farmer, for “right, title and interest in and to a . . . lot of improved land . . . in the northerly part of . . . Concord . . . called the Adams and French lot,” June 21, 1834. On reverse of this transcript: deed, Edward Farmer to Jacob B. Farmer, for “right, title, interest property, estate and demand . . . in and to . . . a . . . tract . . . of land . . . in the Northerly part of Concord . . . one undivided half of a parcel commonly called the sixteen acre piece,” June 8, 1835. Deed, Edward W. Wright to Jacob B. Farmer, for “right title and interest in & unto the premises described in a Mortgage deed made by Edward Gates of Stow to Cyrus Hosmer my late guardian,” July 6, 1835. Bond, James Barrett to Jacob B. Farmer, June 20, 1836. Relates to two bonds sold by Barrett to Farmer and given by Farmer to Sumner Farrar, and to “two certain pieces of land, in . . . Concord . . . where said Farrar lately lived.” Deed, John Dakin to Jacob B. Farmer, for “a . . . tract . . . of land . . . in the northerly part of . . . Concord,” April 20, 1838. Bond, Jacob B. Farmer to William Monroe, June 19, 1838. Relates to “a . . . piece of land . . . in . . . Concord westerly of the house of . . . [Elisha] Farrar.” Guardianship document, appointing Jacob B. Farmer guardian of Freeman A. Stewart and Charles W. Stewart, “minors above the age of fourteen years,” and Bradford B. Stewart, “a minor under the age of fourteen years,” all children of Alexander Stewart (deceased), February 11, 1845. Mortgage deed, Jacob B. Farmer to Mary B. Stow, for three pieces of land in Concord (one “called the Garden”; one “on the westerly side of . . . Groton road”; the third “called the Adams piece, the French piece & the Dakin orchard”), February 12, 1846, with mortgage discharge recorded on reverse (April 1859). Deed, Elizabeth Prescott Barrett to James M. Prescott, for “Right, Title, Interest, Claim and Demand . . . in or to a . . . tract of land . . . in the town of Oxford and County of New Haven State of Connecticut . . . at a place called Phinegcook,” November 25, 1859. “Essay on Ralph Waldo Emerson. (Found among Nellie Farmer’s papers in her writing.)”; undated. “Uncle Jacob Brown. Written by Jane Farmer Barrett of Concord.”; undated. “Amos Bronson Alcott. An Essay by Mrs. Jane Farmer Barrett written in Chicago, in 1904.” “Extracts from the “Record of a School” Exemplifying the General Principles of Spiritual Culture. (James Munroe & Co., Boston, 1835.)”; undated. Transcript concludes with “Extracts from Prof. Patten’s article in the Independent of Mar. 30, 1911.” Return to Top Scrapbook 3: Barrett and Farmer family scrapbook, compiled by Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop. Contains materials dated 1827-1904, plus undated items. The pages of the scrapbook are brittle and damaged. They are preserved in sleeves in a custom binding, and boxed. Contents (listed by types of material, not by order of appearance in volume): Personal correspondence, 1827-1904, plus undated: Primarily letters to or from James Atwater Barrett, Jane Farmer Barrett, and members of their families. Most letters are accompanied by typed transcripts. Correspondents include: Meliscent Hosmer/Meliscent Hosmer Farmer (mother of Jane Farmer Barrett); Rebecah/Rebecca Cogswell (sister of Meliscent Hosmer Farmer; aunt of Jane Farmer Barrett); Jacob Brown Farmer (father of Jane Farmer Barrett); Patty Barrett Hosmer (mother of Meliscent Hosmer Farmer; grandmother of Jane Farmer Barrett); Cyrus Hosmer (brother of Meliscent Hosmer Farmer; uncle of Jane Farmer Brown); George Washington Hosmer (brother of Meliscent Hosmer Farmer; uncle of Jane Farmer Brown); Martha Hosmer (sister of Meliscent Hosmer Farmer; aunt of Jane Farmer Brown); Nell Farmer (sister of Jane Farmer Brown); Elizabeth Prescott Barrett (mother of James Atwater Barrett); George Minot Barrett (father of James Atwater Barrett); Rebecca Minot Barrett (sister of James Atwater Barrett); Charles Pickering Gerrish (cousin of James Atwater Barrett); Lizzie/Mary Barrett Warren (sister of James Atwater Barrett); Samuel Longfellow; the Second Unitarian Sunday School of Brooklyn, New York; Ulysses S. Grant; Robert Todd Lincoln (as Secretary of War); George Frisbie Hoar; Ebenezer Rockwood Hoar; John White Chadwick; and James A. Holden. The scrapbook also includes a generic letter of recommendation (1852) by C. N. Goodnow and Barzillai Frost for Jane Farmer as a schoolteacher. Manuscripts, 1883, plus undated: Undated manuscript describing James Atwater Barrett’s military experience, 1861-1865; remarks (typed transcript only) delivered by James Atwater Barrett at the grave of Col. James H. Perry, May 30, 1883. Military correspondence and documents, 1864-1865, plus undated: Disability and leave-related documents for James Atwater Barrett (1864); ordnance invoices (1864 and 1865); and “Estimate of the Funds required for the Pay and clothing of the 21st Regiment SC Vols. for two months founded on the actual number of said Troops” (undated). Financial and property documents, 1828-1899: Receipt (1828) to Miss Hosmer (Meliscent Hosmer, later Meliscent Hosmer Farmer) for home furnishings purchased prior to marriage; a Treasury Department form (1886) made out to widow Jane Farmer Barrett about the settlement owed for military service by her deceased husband; deed to the Farmer family lot in Concord’s Sleepy Hollow Cemetery (1866, with 1899 addendum). Photographs, undated: 48th Regiment, N. Y. S. Volunteers; Fort Pulaski, Georgia; George Washington Hosmer. Printed ephemera, 1855-1883: Dedication program for Sleepy Hollow Cemetery, Concord (1855); small printed broadside, “Index to a View of Co. H 48th Regt. N. Y. S. V.” (1863); items relating to the 1875 celebration in Concord of the centennial of the Concord Fight; ); a handbill for a program on Fort Wagner and the “rebel prisons” (1882); a ticket to the opening ceremonies for the Brooklyn Bridge (1883); and a handbill hymn, “An Easter Hymn,” by John White Chadwick (undated). Return to Top Scrapbook 4: Titled “Family Letters and Papers Collected and Compiled by Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop Dau. of James Atwater Barrett and Jane Farmer.” Contains materials dated 1824-1886, plus undated items. This scrapbook has been deconstructed and the contents housed in sleeves in a three-ring binder. Meliscent Peterson Gill added photocopy of a letter held by the Concord Free Public Library to the contents as compiled by Emma Barrett Lothrop. Figure 3 - Jane (Jennie) Farmer Barrett The volume includes typed transcripts from original letters and documents archived elsewhere in original form, original letters and documents, and transcripts from some of the originals archived in this volume. This scrapbook consists largely of Civil War-era letters between James Atwater Barrett and his wife-to-be Jane (Jennie) Farmer and some later letters (from after their marriage), in original form (some with envelopes; some with the script inked over to enhance legibility) and/or as typed transcripts (some excerpted). Typed transcripts from letters and documents archived in the original elsewhere include letters from/to Meliscent Hosmer/Meliscent Hosmer Farmer, Rebecah/Rebecca Cogswell, Cyrus Hosmer, Jacob Brown Farmer, George Minot Barrett, Elizabeth Prescott Barrett, Rebecca Minot Barrett, “Friends at home [in Concord],” George Washington Hosmer, the Second Unitarian Sunday School of Brooklyn, New York, Charles Pickering Gerrish, Samuel Longfellow, Ulysses S. Grant, Robert Todd Lincoln, George Frisbie Hoar, and Ebenezer Rockwood Hoar (all in the original in Scrapbook 3), plus documents (an 1824 pew deed from Edward and Nancy Flint to Jacob Brown Farmer; an 1828 receipt to Meliscent Hosmer for household items and furnishings purchased prior to her marriage to Jacob Brown Farmer; military documents, among them disability- and ordnance-related items; James Atwater Barrett’s manuscript account of his war experience) found in the original mainly in Scrapbook 3. This scrapbook also holds a late nineteenth-century cabinet card photograph of the James Barrett, Esq./Major James Barrett House at 612 Barrett’s Mill Road in Concord; an Olympic Theatre (Fort Pulaski) handbill, dated June 19, 1863; an original muster-in document for James Atwater Barrett, November 10, 1863; an original disability document for James Atwater Barrett, July 1864; an original document titled “Return of Company H 48th Regt. N. Y. S. Vol. Infantry,” October 1863; and the typed transcript of an application for membership in the D. A. R. by Nellie Farmer (daughter of Jacob Brown Farmer and Meliscent Hosmer Farmer, and sister of Jane Farmer Barrett), undated. Meliscent Peterson Gill added a photocopied letter from James Atwater Barrett to “Cousin Story” (Joseph Story Gerrish), November 9, 1864, from the original in the William Munroe Special Collections of the Concord Free Public Library (Gerrish Family Papers). Scrapbook 5: Notebook titled “Family Letters and Papers Collected and Compiled by Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop Daughter of James Atwater Barrett and Jane Farmer.” Contains materials dated 1884-1886. Pages inserted in sleeves housed in a three-ring binder, in (primarily) chronological arrangement. Labels (“Family Letters & Papers” and “Collected & Compiled by E. J. B. Lothrop”) affixed to spine of notebook. Almost entirely transcripts from originals dated 1824-1886, overlapping to a significant extent with original and transcribed materials in Scrapbook 3 and Scrapbook 4. This notebook also includes a few original Civil War letters to or from James Atwater Barrett, one original military document, and one piece of printed ephemera—“Index to a View of Co. H 48th Regt. N. Y. S. V.” (1863), another copy of which is found in Scrapbook 3. Return to Top Scrapbooks 6a-6d (four items): Volumes containing items relating to James Atwater Barrett’s Civil War experience. 6a and 6b: “Through the War from Father’s Memoranda.” Two similar manuscript transcriptions by Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop from James Atwater Barrett’s account of his Civil War service, a list of battles and skirmishes in which the 48th Regiment N. Y. S. Volunteers engaged, and letters and documents from the period 1861-1865 (among them extracts from letters by James A. Barrett’s sister Emily Barrett Thompson). Illustrative vignettes by Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop interspersed throughout the manuscript pages of both versions. 6c and 6d: Two manuscript transcripts from James Atwater Barret’st Civil War diary entries and letters, 1861-1865. Include transcripts by Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop of Jane Barrett Farmer’s poem “In Memoriam,” to James Atwater Barrett (February 1887) and of James Atwater Barrett Civil War-era diary entries and letters to family, friends, and fiancée in Concord, 1861-1865. Illustrative vignettes by Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop interspersed throughout the manuscript pages. Scrapbook 7: A scrapbook of miscellaneous materials dated 1828 (in transcript)-[1954], plus much undated material. The pages of the scrapbook have been separated and inserted in sleeves in the original scrapbook binding. The pages on which materials are mounted are brittle. Label affixed to front cover: “Emma Jane’s Scrapbooks.” Contents (listed by types of material, not by order of appearance in volume): (Undated) manuscript note, Edward Jarvis Bartlett to “Dear Emma”; manuscript letters from James Atwater Barrett in Brooklyn to his wife Jennie and their children (who were visiting Concord), 1881; manuscript letters from Jane Farmer Barrett to her children while she was visiting Concord, 1898; hand-written note of appreciation for teaching at the Centre Grammar School in Bedford, Massachusetts, Bedford School Committee to Miss Nellie Farmer, December 11, 1865; manuscript letter, Phebe Farmer to step-granddaughters Nellie, Emma, and Clara Barrett, January 5, 1874; manuscript letter, Edwin Farmer to his sister Jennie, Nashville, Tennessee, November 27, 1863; (undated) manuscript letter, George Farmer Barrett to his sister Emma Jane Barrett, on N. H. Warren & Co. letterhead (Chicago); manuscript note, book dealer George E. Littlefield to Mrs. Jane F. Barrett, Boston, January 2, 1899, on letterhead, regarding Littlefield’s providing Mrs. Barrett with a copy of Shattuck’s 1835 history of Concord; typed letter, George S. Pense, Grand Army Hall and Memorial Association, regarding the Association’s willingness to accept “any papers or other Civil War relics you may care to send,” Chicago, February 3, 1939, on letterhead; manuscript letter, Nellie Prescott Barrett to mother Jane Farmer Barrett and siblings, [Ann Arbor], September 25, 1890; and manuscript note responding to news of the death of Nellie Farmer, Sherman Williams, Chief, University of the State of New York, State Department of Education, School Libraries Division, Albany, to Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop, January 8, 1907. Essays and presentations: Typed transcript of an essay by Jane Farmer Barrett, Chicago, 1904, and pieces by Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop—typed speech, “Abraham Lincoln, the Man”; typescript, “Art as an International Influence”; typescript, “The School of Tomorrow” (1945); “Republic of Paraguay. Introducing Customs of South America.” Transcripts: Manuscript transcript (copied directly onto scrapbook mounting leaf) of James Atwater Barrett obituary ([1885]); manuscript transcript (copied directly onto scrapbook mounting leaf) of Jacob Brown Farmer obituary ([1872]); manuscript transcript (copied directly onto scrapbook mounting leaves) of words written by Sophia Hawthorne (Mrs. Nathaniel Hawthorne) on the death of her husband, ([1864]); manuscript transcript (copied directly onto scrapbook mounting leaf) of excerpt from Memoirs of Margaret Fuller Ossoli (first published in 1852); manuscript transcript (copied directly onto scrapbook mounting leaf) of poem “In Memoriam” by George E. Davenport for Minot Pratt (who died in 1878); typed transcripts of Barrett and Farmer family documents available in original and transcribed forms in other scrapbooks in the collection (originals dated 1828, 1836); “Some sayings of Lincoln” copied in manuscript (copied directly onto scrapbook mounting leaf); typed transcript of prayer by Mrs. J. L. Jones, read at the funeral service of Jane Farmer Barrett in 1919; and typed transcript of September 3, 1902 minutes of the Board of Education, Glens Falls, New York, acknowledging the resignation of Nellie Farmer (principal of the Glens Falls High School) and expressing the Board’s appreciation of her efforts, accompanied by a note (transcribed in manuscript) expressing Nellie Farmer’s thanks for the honor. Newspaper and magazine clippings and clipped photographs: Items relating to William Penn, the Statue of Liberty, the Reverend George Washington Hosmer, the Concord School of Philosophy, Charles Pickering Gerrish (obituary), Minot Pratt (memorial poem by George E. Davenport), the Brooklyn Bridge, the 48th Regiment N. Y. S. Volunteer Infantry, the 1954 collapse of the steeple of the Old North Church in Boston (a result of Hurricane Carol), Henry Seidel Canby’s Thoreau (a review in Time, October 16, 1939), Paul Revere, Plymouth Rock, The Wayside in Concord and Wayside Inn in Sudbury, the Barrett Mill in Concord (from Christian Science Monitor), canoeing on the Concord River, George Washington and Betsy Ross, the courthouse/insurance building in Concord, New England churches and historical sites, Carrizo Gorge, “Our Flag in Pictures” (cartoon, Chicago Daily Tribune, February 14, 1953), and other topics. Photographs: Images of the 48th Regiment N. Y. S. Volunteers at Fort Pulaski, James Atwater Barrett’s soap-works in Brooklyn, the Barrett Mill in Concord, and Concord photo montage (Soldiers’ Monument, Emerson House—interior and exterior, Concord School of Philosophy, Ralph Waldo Emerson, North Bridge). Program for Christmas service of the First Parish Sunday School in Concord, December 26, 1886; business card for James Atwater Barrett, soap manufacturer; Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Brown Farmer, engraved invitation to the wedding of Jennie Farmer and James Atwater Barrett, December 26, 1865; program for twelfth annual commencement exercises, Chicago Kent College of Law (George Farmer Barrett was among those receiving a degree); ball program (November 12, 1884), Drum Corps, James H. Perry Post #14, at the Brooklyn Lyceum; (undated) program for “Lectures on Economic Subjects,” Henry George Association, Handel Hall, Chicago; printed brochure, “Greeting to the Builders and Friends of the Abraham Lincoln Center, Chicago,” 1905; certificate of qualification for Nellie Farmer to teach first grade, June 26, 1887; printed School Committee report including comment on the Centre Grammar School as taught by Miss Nellie Farmer; State of New York, Department of Public Instruction, Superintendent’s Office, award certificate to teacher Nellie Farmer, Glens Falls, New York, October 23, 1889; five engraved calling cards (four hand-colored); program for twelfth annual commencement exercises, Raymond School [Chicago], June 26, 1891; printed material relating to “Prof. Training Class, Chicago Normal School, 1897”; American National Red Cross certificate to Mrs. F. W. Peterson, accompanied by a typed letter, December 1945, Mrs. Lottie M. Meagher to Mrs. F. W. Peterson, on American Red Cross, El Centro (California) Chapter, letterhead; (undated) U. S. Army Air Forces certificate to Mrs. F. W. Peterson for service as a member of the Aircraft Warning Service; and Tea Room menu for Knott’s Berry Place, Buena Park, California, 1937. Concord scenes—Walden Pond, North Bridge, First Parish meeting house, and Daniel Chester French’s Minute Man. Also includes: Verse (some manuscript, some typed) by several writers (among them Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop, Sherman Hoar, Sarah Louise Leete—including the poem “In Memoriam N. F. [Nellie Farmer]” by Leete); and locks of hair from children of James Atwater Barrett and Jennie Farmer Barrett. Scrapbook 8: Scrapbook titled “Concord Memories,” compiled by Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop. Scrapbook pages separated and inserted in sleeves housed in a three-ring binder, with photocopy of a separate item added (James Atwater Barrett’s undated manuscript account—prepared in the late 1860s—of his Civil War experiences). Only half of the original scrapbook cover survives. The scrapbook contents consist primarily of clippings (most undated; some dated or dateable to between [1894] and 1950, plus one ephemeral item (1888) and the undated Civil War account. Labels (“Emma Jane’s Scrapbook” and “Concord Memories”) affixed to cover. Concord historical sites and historical sites in neighboring towns; Islam; Christopher Columbus; Benjamin Franklin; Edward Farmer (obituary); Miss Agnes Young Humphrey (retiring high school principal); Wayside Inn, Sudbury; “The Riddle of the Sphynx” by C. A. Shaw; Sherman Hoar and the Spanish-American War; a three-part article—“The Life of a Boy Sixty Years Ago”—by George Frisbie Hoar; Mrs. Thoreau’s ghost; poems by William Watson, John Greenleaf Whittier, and James Russell Lowell, and epigrams from a sermon by Dr. Frank Crane; John C. Friend; Rev. William Henry Savary (obituary); Lieutenant A. W. Wood of Concord; James K. Hosmer; early celebrations of the events of April 19, 1775; the first Patriots’ Day in Massachusetts ([1894]); April 19, 1950; Elizabeth Ford Millett (obituary; 1942); Mary O. Dakin (obituary); review of Esther Forbes’s Paul Revere and the World He Lived In ([1942]); excerpts from Ezra Ripley’s account of the Concord Fight; Colonial Inn history; Commander Charles Edward Tolman of Concord (missing in action, 1943); engagement announcement, Philip A. Davis and Ann Winship (1941); Barrett’s Mill; eulogy for George Frisbie Hoar by C. Q. Tirrell ([1904]); the Hoar family burial lot in Sleepy Hollow Cemetery; the Hoar family in Massachusetts; “400 Teachers Seek to Save Thoreau Home”; Paul Revere; review of Elizabeth Coatsworth’s South Shore Town ([1948]); Cyrus Hosmer (obituary); Evelyn M. Buck (obituary); article by T. Morris Longstreth on Daniel Chester French’s Minute Man (for the Christian Science Monitor); other sculptures by French; and “Uncle Ezra”/Pat Barrett. Ephemeral item: Program for Lake View High School graduation exercises (Chicago), June 21, 1888. Return to Top Scrapbook 9: Typed caption on first leaf: “Lest we forget: may these family stories freshen our interest in dear old Concord and help us to carry on. Collected by Emma Barrett Lothrop.” This scrapbook contains postcards, photographs, clippings, and two letters relating to Concord, Massachusetts, and to the Barrett, Brown, and Farmer families of Concord, interspersed with typed captions and extensive typed narrative on these and related subjects. Materials largely undated, those dated ranging from 1871 to 1938. Label (“Old Concord Family Memories”) affixed to front cover. Contents (listed by types of material, not by order of appearance in volume): Mainly Concord scenes: the North Bridge, Barrett Farm, the James Barrett, Jr. House on Barrett’s Mill Road, the Concord Free Public Library, Wright Tavern, the April 19, 1775 diorama at the Concord Antiquarian Society (now Concord Museum), Peter Bulkeley’s bed and the Pre-Revolutionary Room at the Antiquarian Society, and the statue of Senator George Frisbie Hoar in Worcester. Photographs: Col. James Barrett’s gravestone in the Old Hill Burying Ground, Jane Farmer Barrett in James Atwater Barrett’s military uniform, houses and buildings associated with the Barretts in Concord and in Brooklyn, Jane Farmer Barrett portrait from a daguerreotype or ambrotype, James Atwater Barrett and Cuffe, Jacob Brown Farmer, Phebe Dakin Farmer, tablet to the Hoar family in the Old Raven Tavern in Gloucester, England, the Farmer Homestead on Lowell Road in Concord, the gravestone of Jane Farmer Barrett and James Atwater Barrett in Sleepy Hollow Cemetery, Alex Leete wearing the “Freedom Suit” of Jacob Brown, the North Bridge (colorized), the Battle Monument (cyanotype), Major Frederic Loring Lothrop (in uniform) and wife Emma Barrett Lothrop on the North Bridge, entrance to the Battle Ground, Daniel Chester French’s statue of the Minute Man, and household objects (belongings of Jacob and Mary Jones Brown, Meliscent Hosmer Farmer, and Phebe Dakin Farmer). Items relating to Phebe Dakin Farmer, the Old Hill Burying Ground, Hunt-Hosmer House on Lowell Road (clipped photograph), the meaning of “Freedom Suit,” George Bradford Bartlett’s boathouse on the Concord River behind the Old Manse (periodical or book illustration), newspaper photograph of Revolutionary reenactors running across the North Bridge [1925], meeting house of the First Parish in Concord, and an article by Ruth Robinson Wheeler (Mrs. Caleb Henry Wheeler) about the Old Davis Store on Belknap Street. Engraved or printed letter, George Dakin to George M. Barrett, Buffalo, November 15, 1871, in gold ink, and typed October 28, 1905 letter (carbon copy) from Sarah Louise Leete, Providence, to George Tolman at the Concord Antiquarian Society regarding the donation to the Society of Jacob Brown’s “Freedom Suit” and military garb. Scrapbooks 10a and 10b: Two items, “Family Papers Collected by Emma Barrett Lothrop”and “Barrett,”containing photocopied transcripts and images appearing in other scrapbooks and notebooks; “Family Papers Collected by Emma Barrett Lothrop”: primarily material from the Civil War period. Photocopy of typed transcripts from original material and also a photocopied manuscript transcription of a letter from “Santa Claus” [James Atwater Barrett] to Jennie Barrett (1879); the undated poem “Mother” by Emma Barrett Lothrop; and a manuscript transcript of the printed 1865-1866 Bedford, Massachusetts, School Committee report expressing appreciation of teacher Nellie Farmer. “Barrett” (the title from a hand-written caption on the front cover; the bookplate of William Hosmer Peterson pasted to the inside of the front cover): photocopy of Barrett-, Hosmer-, and Farmer-related portraits and other images, and images of Concord historical sites and family-associated local sites; descriptions of Barrett furniture and artifacts; bibliography; gravestone and monument inscriptions; Barrett, Hosmer, Prescott, Farmer, Brown, and Bulkeley genealogy; a transcription of the 1875 James P. Swain letter to Charles Thompson accompanying the gift of the Millie Barrett scissors to the Concord Free Public Library; information about the name “Atwater”; information about James Atwater Barrett’s Civil War service; information about Major Joseph Hosmer; a poem for John F. Hosmer by Sherman Hoar (1893); Hoar family information; information about Jonathan Prescot[t]; information about Phebe Dakin Farmer (including an obituary) and Jacob Brown Farmer (obituary); transcript of a 1905 letter by Sarah Louise Leete accompanying the gift of Jacob Brown’s “Freedom Suit” and military clothing to the Concord Antiquarian Society; and information about the meeting house of the First Parish in Concord. Scrapbooks 11a and 11b (two small albums): Two copies of an undated Jane Farmer Barrett album compiled by Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop, consisting of typed transcripts of verse by and relating to Jane Farmer Barrett, and photographs of her. Return to Top Series II. Loose papers, documents, ephemera, and artifact, 1861-1913, plus undated items: Box 4, Folder 1: Military document (warrant), Captain James Barrett to Corporal Abishai Brown, June 17, 1797, with note by Brown on the reverse documenting that the directive in the warrant was executed, June 24, 1797. Box 4, Folder 2: Guardianship document, appointing Rufus Hosmer of Stow guardian of Mellicent Hosmer and Elizabeth Hosmer of Concord, “minors under the age of fourteen,” April 8, 1818. Box 4, Folder 3: State of North Carolina 1861 scrip (ten cents), Parker House (Boston) 1862 scrip (five cents) Box 4, Folder 4: Paper “Friendship” seal, with doves and roses, sent by Jane Farmer to James Atwater Barrett during the Civil War. Box 4, Folder 5: Military commission documents (on parchment) for James Atwater Barrett, July 31, 1863 as First Lieutenant, May 16, 1864 as Captain. Box 4, Folder 6: James Atwater Barrett pocket diary for 1864. Box 4, Folder 7: Original disability documents, James Atwater Barrett, July 8, 1864 and August 16, 1864 (printed forms with manuscript additions), signed by Dr. Josiah Bartlett. Box 4, Folder 8: Original muster-in document for James A. Barrett, September 12, 1864. Box 4, Folder 9: James Atwater Barrett diary, 1864-1865. Box 4, Folder 10: Nelson Sizer (“Practical Phrenologist,” Fowler and Wells Phrenological Cabinet, New York). Phrenological Character of James A. Barrett, September 12, 1865 (manuscript report in printed cover with manuscript additions). Box 4, Folder 11: Autograph book of Clara Hosmer Barrett, 1886-1891. Box 4, Folder 12: Typed transcript by Emma Jane Barrett Lothrop of Jane Farmer Barrett’s poem “In Memoriam,” written for James Atwater Barrett, Concord, February 1887, in paper cover. Box 4, Folder 13: Emma Jane Barrett (Lothrop) sketchbook, 1901. Box 4, Folder 14: Jane Farmer Barrett diary, 1902-1913, with earlier diary entries (1884-1886) transcribed at end of volume. Box 4, Folder 15: Undated manuscript note, James Atwater Barrett to daughter Nellie Prescott Barrett. Box 4, Folder 16: Printed paper seal, Harrison & Coover (Central Music Hall, State and Randolph, Chicago). Box 4, Folder 17: Four Adrian Insurance Company (Adrian, Michigan) scrips (two one-dollar, one two-dollar, one three-dollar), 18--. Box 4, Folder 18: Empty envelope addressed to Miss Lizzie Warren, Concord (postmarked New York). Box 4, unfoldered: Watch chain made from braided hair of Jane Farmer Barrett (boxed). Box 4, unfoldered: Nineteenth-century colored map (undated) of New York City; printed on paper, mounted on cloth. Damaged (in two pieces). Return to Top Series III. Visuals (loose portraits and photographs, photograph albums), [1816] (in copy form)]-1961 (clipping mounted in album): Portrait photographs in cases or frames: Small Box 1: miniature portrait of an unidentified young man in a metal and glass pendant; portrait of Jane Farmer Barrett as a young woman; portrait of Jane Farmer Barrett in Civil War hat and jacket. Small Box 2: portrait of Elizabeth Prescott Barrett, wearing elaborate lace cap; portrait of brothers George and James Atwater Barrett as young men. Small Box 3: portrait of George Barrett as a boy; portrait of James Atwater Barrett as an adolescent. Small Box 4: portrait possibly of Emily Barrett Thompson; portrait of an unidentified young man. Small Box 5: portrait of an unidentified young woman in a bonnet; portrait of an unidentified young woman with a cravat. Unboxed: framed black-and-white photographic reproduction of oil portrait (on panel) of Major Joseph Hosmer, painted in 1816 by Ethan Allen Greenwood. (Original painting held by the Concord Free Public Library.) Two portraits, one of a man, one of a woman—the grandfather and grandmother of either James Atwater Barrett or Jane Farmer Barrett. Portrait of Carrie Barrett at about eight months, Brooklyn, [ca.1867]. Portrait of Jane Farmer Barrett holding baby son George Farmer Barrett, Brooklyn, [ca. 1870]. Portrait of James Atwater Barrett, [1870s]. Portrait of Nell Prescott Barrett at about age two, [ca. 1873]. Portrait of Nell Prescott Barrett holding a baby sibling, Brooklyn, [mid-1870s]. Portrait of Nell Prescott Barrett as a young child, Brooklyn, [mid-1870s]. Portrait of Emma Jane Barrett at about four months, [ca. 1873]. Portrait of Clara Hosmer Barrett at about four months, [ca. 1877]. Portrait of an unidentified adolescent boy. Portrait of unidentified child. Carte de visite portraits: Barrett, James Atwater, in military uniform (W. E. James, Brooklyn), [1860s]. Barrett, Jane (Jennie) Farmer (Miller & Rowell, Boston), [1860s]. Barrett, Rebecca Minot, sister of James Atwater Barrett (T. R. Burnham, Boston), [1860s]. Barrett, Rebecca Minot, sister of James Atwater Barrett (A. Sonrel, Boston), [1860s]. Barrett, Rebecca Minot, sister of James Atwater Barrett, another pose from the same sitting (A. Sonrel, Boston), [1860s]. Two copies. Bates, Mary Covington (Mrs. George Bates). Brown, Lucy, “Hersey’s sister” (Whipple, Boston), [1860s]. Brown, Mrs. William (J. C. Spooner’s Picture Palace, Springfield, Massachusetts), [1860s]. Farmer, Edward, “cousin,” in military uniform (Miller & Rowell, Boston), [1860s]. Farmer, Edwin, Jane’s brother, in military uniform (Miller & Rowell, Boston), [1860s]. Farmer, Henry, Jane’s brother (Miller & Rowell, Boston), [1860s]. Farmer, Henry, Jane’s brother, another pose from the same sitting (Miller & Rowell, Boston), [1860s]. Farmer, Leonard, Edward’s son (Miller & Rowell, Boston), [1860s]. Top of card cut off; image unaffected. Farmer, Lizzie, Edward’s daughter (Miller & Rowell, Boston), [1860s].Top of card cut off; image unaffected. Farmer, Mary, Edward’s daughter (Frank Rowell, Boston), [1865]. Griffin, Sarah Wood, “Cousin” (Charles S. Rawson, Brooklyn). Hosmer, Carrie (C. T. Sylvester, Boston), [1860s]. Hosmer, Eliza (Black & Case, Boston), [1860s]. Hosmer, Henry J., “son of Cyrus.” Two copies. Top of one copy cut off; image unaffected. Hosmer, Rev. Herbert, “(cousin) Washington Hosmer’s son.” Farmer, Jennie Smith (Mrs. Edwin Farmer), Jane’s sister-in-law (Christmas, Photographer, Mansfield, Ohio). Leete, Elizabeth Farmer (Mrs. George F. Leete), Jane’s sister (Coleman & Remington, Providence, Rhode Island). Leete, George Farmer, Jane’s brother-in-law (Coleman & Remington, Providence, Rhode Island). Leete, Martha (Mattie) Farmer, second wife of Charles L. Leete, brother of George F. Leete (Howard, [New York]). Prescott, Minott, “Bronxville” (E. A. Lewis, New York), [1870s]. Prescott, Mrs. Minott (E. A. Lewis, New York), [1870s]. Swain, Mrs. J. P., “sister of Mrs. Wood” (E. A. Lewis, New York), [1870s]. Thompson, Emily Augusta Barrett, sister of James Atwater Barrett (J. W. Black, Boston), [ca. 1864]. Warren, Mary Prescott Barrett (Mrs. Nathan Henry Warren), sister of James Atwater Barrett (G. L. Hurd, Providence, Rhode Island). Witherle, Mollie Wood, “cousin” (Miller & Rowell, Boston), [1860s]. Two copies. Wood, Ella Skinner, Mrs. John Wood (Marshall & Co., Boston). Wood, Ellen Prescott, Mrs. William Wood, “your father’s cousin” (E. A. Lewis, New York), [1870s]. Wood, John Farmer, “cousin” (The London Stereoscopic and Photographic Company). Wood, John Farmer, “son of James Wood & Rispah Farmer Wood” (Marshall & Co., Boston). Two copies. Wyman, Mr., “of Brooklyn N. Y. Called father of 48th Reg.” (Williamson, Brooklyn). Unidentified young man (Manchester Bros., Providence, Rhode Island). Cabinet card portraits: Barrett, Charles Gerrish, son of James and Jane (C. H. Jordan, Brooklyn), [1875 or 1876]. Farmer, Nell, Jane’s unmarried sister, and a teacher (Taft, Glens Falls, New York). Barrett, George Farmer, son of James and Jane, father of Clara (Varney, Chicago). Prints on paper (some mounted): Barrett, George Farmer, son of James and Jane, father of Clara. Mounted on card stock. Barrett, George Henry, brother of James Atwater Barrett, “a miner.” Barrett, James Atwater Barrett, and Cuffe, both in uniform, [1863]. Barrett, Jane Farmer, as a young woman: copy image photographed from cased image in Small Box 1, [1860s]. Barrett, Jane Farmer in later years, “grandmother to James, William and Dorothea.” Two versions from the same sitting. Both oval portraits pasted to card stock. Barrett, Jane Farmer in later years, seated, smiling broadly. Barrett, Jane Farmer in later years, outside, wearing bonnet, carrying flowers. Photograph mounted pasted to card stock. Barrett, Jane Farmer, outside, [1915]. Farmer, Abby Buttrick, “cousin” (copy image from carte de visite portrait). Farmer, Edwin, Jane’s brother (small oval head-and-shoulders portrait, mounted on paper). Hosmer, Henry J., “mother’s cousin,” photographed from a painting. Lothrop, Emma Jane Barrett, packet of twelve photographs, plus a second copy of one of them, from girlhood to old age. Includes both formal portraits (among them studio portraits by Gibson Art Galleries and by Hartley Portraits of Chicago), some mounted on heavy stock, and some of Emma Jane with others (Anna Gerding Kustner, later Smith, Dr. Frederick W. Lothrop), [ca. 1885-ca. 1955]. Peterson, Clara Hosmer Barrett (Mrs. Frederick W. Peterson), daughter of James and Jane. Peterson, Clara Hosmer Barrett, (Mrs. Frederick W. Peterson), daughter of James and Jane, 1904. Oval portrait. Peterson, Clara Hosmer Barrett (Mrs. Frederick W. Peterson), daughter of James and Jane, with mother Jane Farmer Barrett holding granddaughter Dorothy Peterson, 1915. Peterson, Clara Hosmer Barrett, (Mrs. Frederick W. Peterson), daughter of James and Jane outdoors, standing to the right; her mother Jane Farmer Barrett in the center and sister Nell Prescott Barrett to the left, holding Dorothy Peterson; young James Barrett Peterson and William Hosmer Peterson standing front center and to the right, respectively, 1915. Peterson, Clara Hosmer Barrett, (Mrs. Frederick W. Peterson), daughter of James and Jane, with Frederick Lothrop (at left) and Dr. Frederick Peterson (at right). “Taken at breakfast at Cherry Knoll.” Wood, George, “Charlotte’s brother,” outside, taken December 1, 1908, by Miss S. E. Wood, Danville (Contra Costa County, California). Shows orange, walnut, and palm trees in the background. Barrett home, Concord: Packet of six late nineteenth-/early twentieth-century photographs (five of them mounted on heavy card stock) of the James Barrett, Esq./Major James Barrett House at 612 Barrett’s Mill Road in Concord. Farmer George Minot Barrett (son of Major James) lived here, and his son James Atwater Barrett was born and raised here. H. P. Moore commercially produced cartes de visite showing southern scenes, 1862-1864: Live Oak and Palmetto Trees, At Elliott’s, Hilton Head, S. C. Nursery at Elliott’s, Hilton Head, S.C. Slaves of Rebel Gen. T. F. Drayton, Hilton Head, S. C. Sutler’s Row, Hilton Head, S. C. 1864. Hospital, Hilton Head, S. C. J. E. Seabrook’s House, from the Wharf, Edisto Island, S. C. Fish Pond, Seabrook’s, Edisto Island, S. C. Sweet Potato Planting, at Hopkinson’s, Edisto Island, S. C. Secesh Gun, Fort Welles, Port Royal, S. C. Forward Pivot Gun, 200 lb. Rifle, U. S. Ship Wabash. Deck of U. S. Ship Wabash, Port Royal Harbor, S. C. May, 1863. Deck of U. S. Ship Vermont, Port Royal Harbor, S. C. Contrabands aboard U. S. Ship Vermont, Port Royal, S. C. Pivot Gun and Crew, U. S. Ship Pocahontas, Edisto River, S. C. April 1862. Fort Pulaski, Ga. Fort Pulaski, Ga., 1863. Entrance from the Demilune. Fort Pulaski, Ga. Demilune from the Sprague Gun. A similar view (lacks printed label on the reverse). Fort Pulaski, Ga. 48th Regiment N. Y. S. Vols. Light House, Tybee Island, Ga. Martello Tower, Tybee Island, Ga., Built in 1537, by the Spanish. Other commercially distributed cartes de visite (miscellaneous subjects): J. W. Black (Boston), photograph of a tower, labeled on the front in manuscript, “Fort at Newport,” [1860s]. J. E. Tilton & Co. (Boston), portrait of Ralph Waldo Emerson, “Photographed by Black,” [1860s]. J. W. Black (Boston), portrait of Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes with microscope, [1860s]. Gen. Washington (from an engraved portrait; maker unidentified). President Lincoln & Family (from a print; maker unidentified). A. Lincoln. President of the U. S. (from an engraved portrait; maker unidentified). E. & H. T. Anthony (New York), portrait of General Quincy Adams Gilmore in uniform, “From Photographic Negative by Brady,” [1860s]. E. & H. T. Anthony (New York), portrait of General George Crockett Strong in uniform, “From Photographic Negative by Brady,” [1860s]. School scene (uncaptioned; from a print; maker unidentified). Photograph albums: “Old Concord and Barrett Photos” (title from label affixed to cover): Primarily early twentieth century photographs with hand-written captions. One 1904 “Gibson girls” newspaper illustration laid in; one clipping dated 1961 pasted in long after compilation of the album. Typed transcript of “Concord Float Song” by George Bradford Bartlett pasted to reverse of final leaf and inside of back cover. Includes several photographs by James Tolman. Subjects represented in images: Concord historical sites, including Daniel Chester French’s Minute Man Statue, Battle Monument, North Bridge (the concrete version constructed in 1909), Emerson House, Wayside, Old Manse, Samuel Hoar House (Main Street), Concord Antiquarian (Reuben Brown) House, “Bullet Hole House,” Orchard House, Concord School of Philosophy (Hillside Chapel), the “Yellow House” (Thoreau/Alcott House, Main Street), First Parish meeting house, Wright Tavern, the James Barrett, Jr. House on Barrett’s Mill Road, Monument Square (Civil War monument and courthouse/insurance building), gravestones in the Old Hill Burying Ground and Sleepy Hollow Cemetery, and the Melvin Memorial in Sleepy Hollow. Also includes meadow and farm scenes, photographs of the Concord and Assabet Rivers and of Egg Rock (the confluence of the Sudbury and Assabet Rivers, where the Concord River begins), Fairyland, several portraits (Amos Bronson Alcott, Louisa May Alcott, and “Cousin Story Gerrish” [Joseph Story Gerrish]). Other subjects: historic sites and the Cary Library in Lexington, historic sites in Salem, and images of Coffin’s Beach, Gloucester. “Concord, Mass.” ([circa 1895]-1959, mainly undated; title from manuscript caption on first page of album): Subjects represented in images: the North Bridge; Daniel Chester French’s Minute Man; the avenue to the North Bridge and battleground area; the Battle Monument; the Hemlocks on the Assabet River; the Mill Brook (Lowell Road); Nashawtuc Bridge; the Concord River from Flint’s Bridge; the George Bradford Bartlett marker near the confluence of the Sudbury and Assabet Rivers; the Sudbury River from Nashawtuc; Fairyland; “The Hosmer Road”; the Three-Arch Bridge on the Sudbury River; Concord High School; Emerson House; Old Manse; Orchard House; the meeting house of the First Parish in Concord; the meeting house of the First Parish engulfed in flames (1901; a dramatic and unique photograph); the charred ruins of the First Parish; the Civil War monument; the Concord Free Public Library; the Farmer Homestead (Lowell Road); the Barrett Homestead (Barrett’s Mill Road); colorized postcard showing the old Middlesex Hotel, sent to Nellie Farmer in Buffalo; Barrett and Lothrop gravestones; sites in Plymouth, Salem, and Cape Ann (Massachusetts); the Niagara Falls area; the Pan American Exposition (Buffalo, 1901) at night; “Pawtucket Cousins”; Ashley and Elizabeth How; Donald Johnston; “Peggy and Don”; Ronnie Brett (May’s grandson), Concord; Winthrop and Ivan Wood, Concord; and the Lowell Road home of May and Phil Davis (incorporated into a Christmas card). Return to Top IV. Books and pamphlets, 1791-1948: Balfour, Graham. The Life of Robert Louis Stevenson . . . (London: Methuen & Co. Ltd., [1911]). Bartlett, George Bradford. Verses Written for the Concord Home for the Aged . . . ([Concord: no printer or publisher named, between 1886 and 1890?]). Bible. The Holy Bible, Containing the Old and New Testaments: Together with the Apocrypha: Translated Out of the Original Tongues, and With the Former Translations diligently Compared and Revised, By the special Command of King James I, of England. With Marginal Notes and References . . . (Worcester, Massachusetts: Isaiah Thomas, 1791). Barrett family Bible, with a manuscript “Family Record of Marriage, and Births of Children” (1792-1875) between the Apocrypha and the New Testament. Condition poor. The Bouquet, or Spirit of English Poetry. Third Edition (Philadelphia: Henry F. Anners, [no date of publication]). Pencil inscriptions and notes by young Nellie Prescott Barrett on front free endpaper and front lining leaf. Browning, Elizabeth Barrett. Poems of the Intellect and the Affections . . . Elegantly Illustrated (Philadelphia: E. H. Butler & Co., 1867). Inscribed in ink on front lining leaf: “Nellie P. Barrett”; below this, in pencil, “To James from / Mother.” Binding damaged. Browning, Robert. The Complete Poetic and Dramatic Works of Robert Browning. Cambridge Edition (Boston; New York: Houghton, Mifflin and Company; The Riverside Press, Cambridge, copyright 1895). Inscribed on blank recto of frontispiece page: “Barrett / 6429 Jefferson Av.” Clipping (1926) and loose sheets of manuscript notes in pencil laid in. Bunyan, John. The Pilgrim’s Progress from This World to That Which Is to Come . . . (New York: Thomas Y. Crowell & Co., [no date of publication]). Front cover and spine detached. Centennial Pocket Album 1776 1876 (New York: Centennial Album Co., [1876]). Damaged copy; missing two plates. Chaucer, Geoffrey. The Works of Geoffrey Chaucer. Edited by Alfred W. Pollard, H. Frank Heath, Mark H. Liddell, W.S. McCormick. [From head of title] The Globe Edition (London: Macmillan and Co., 1899). Inscribed in ink on front free endpaper: “F. W. Peterson.” Cheever, George B. The Journal of the Pilgrims at Plymouth, in New England, in 1620: Reprinted from the Original Volume. With Historical and Local Illustrations of Providences, Principles, and Persons . . . (New York: Published by John Wiley, 1848). Inscribed on front free endpaper: “L Lothrop.” Typed “Notes taken from lectures” tipped to a back lining leaf. Manuscript notes in ink on back paste-down endpaper. Front cover detached. Concord (Massachusetts). Proceedings at the Centennial Celebration of Concord Fight, April 19, 1875 (Concord: The Town, 1876). Inscribed on half-title in pencil (all but last line inked over): “Emma J. Barrett / 621 E. 65th st. Chicago / Given to me by Uncle Charles / Thompson who said it was / very valuable. / James Barrett Peterson.” In home-made cloth wrapper (orginally issued in paper wrapper). Concord (Massachusetts). Trustees of Town Donations. Annual Report of the Trustees of Town Donations of the Town of Concord, Massachusetts For the Year Ending December 31, 1916 (Concord, Massachusetts: Thomas Todd Co., Printers, [1917]). In printed paper wrapper. Concord Free Public Library (Concord, Massachusetts). Concord Free Public Library Seventy-Fifth Anniversary, October 1, 1948 (Concord: Members of the Library Corporation in conjunction with the Library Committee, 1948). In printed paper wrapper. Emerson, Ralph Waldo. Essays by Ralph Waldo Emerson. Illustrated (New York; London: Merrill and Baker, [no date of publication]). Stamped on front free endpaper: “F. L. Lothrop / May 10, 1906,” with “Chicago, Ill.” added in manuscript (in ink) between the two stamped lines. Newspaper clipping pasted to front paste-down endpaper; clipped magazine article tipped to back paste-down endpaper. Emerson, Ralph Waldo. Essays by Ralph Waldo Emerson. First and Second Series. Complete in One Volume (New York: A. L. Burt Company, [no date of publication]). Inscribed in pencil on front free endpaper: “C. H. B.” Emerson, Ralph Waldo. Poems by Ralph Waldo Emerson. Household Edition (Boston; New York: Houghton, Mifflin and Company, copyright 1904). Inscribed in ink on front free endpaper: “To Fred / from / Clara / Jan. 1-1906.” Goldsmith, Oliver. The Vicar of Wakefield . . . (New York: H. M. Caldwell Company, [no date of publication]). Inscribed on front lining leaf: “Goldwin Shephard.” Pencil notes on back free endpaper. Homer. The Iliad of Homer. Translated by Alexander Pope (New York: Hurst & Co., [no date of publication]). Inscribed in pencil on front free endpaper: “Clara H. Barrett. / 1b.” Hosmer, James Kendall. The Last Leaf. Observations, during Seventy-five Years, of Men and Events in America and Europe . . . (New York; London: G. P. Putnam’s Sons; The Knickerbocker Press, 1912). Inscribed on front-free endpaper: “To William from Mother.” Inscribed in ink on printed front lining leaf (list of books by J. K. Hosmer), under Hosmer’s name: “(a dear cousin of Grandmother Barrett).” Longfellow, Henry Wadsworth. The Complete Poetical Works of Henry Wadsworth Longfellow. Household Edition. With Two Hundred and Seventy Illustrations (Boston; New York: Houghton, Mifflin and Company, copyright 1902). Longfellow, Henry Wadsworth. The Poetical Works of Henry Wadsworth Longfellow (Boston; New York: Houghton, Mifflin and Company, copyright 1883). Inscribed in ink on front free endpaper: “Emma Peterson.” Notes in pencil on back paste-down endpaper. Several gatherings detached. Return to Top Macdonald, Loren B. Easter Sermon . . . After the Burning of the Meeting House of the First Parish in Concord, Massachusetts. The Passing of the Old Meeting House[—]A Poem by Edward Waldo Emerson ([Concord]: Privately printed, 1900). Combined with this in one wrapper (with pasted label on front): Dedication of the Restored Meeting House of the First Parish in Concord, Thursday, October 3rd., 1901. Concord, Massachusetts ([Concord: First Parish], 1901). Malick, John. “The Changing Theology and the Birth of the Nation—This Modern Sectarian Claim to the Americanism of the Founders” . . . Pulpit, First Unitarian Congregational Church of Cincinnati . . . ([Cincinnati: The Church], 1925. Printed self-wrapper. Inscribed in ink on front: “See Page 8 / John Lothrop / of Boston Church.” Memorial of George Washington Hosmer, D. D. Edited by his Children . . . ([No place of publication]: Privately Printed, 1882). Inscribed in pencil on front lining leaf: “Jenny F. Barrett / 1882 / 25 Lewis Av. / Brooklyn / N. Y.” Below this, in pencil, inked over, “To James from Mother.” Loose pages in front of volume. Myers, Alfred E. In Memoriam. James Minot Prescott . . . Delivered in the Reformed Church at Bronxville, N.Y., Sunday, July 26, 1874 . . . ([No place of publication or publisher named, 1874]). Milton, John. Milton’s Paradise Lost, Books I. and II. With Introduction, Notes, and Diagrams, by Homer B. Sprague . . . (Boston: Ginn & Company, 1889). Pencil notes on back paste-down endpaper. [Old South Church (Boston): materials relating to the Old South Church in Boston, bound together (front cover stamped in gold: “Loring Lothrop”; binding damaged, front cover detached)]: Wisner, Benjamin B. The History of the Old South Church in Boston, in Four Sermons, Delivered May 9, & 16, 1830, Being the First and Second Sabbaths After the Completion of a Century from the First Occupancy of the Present Meeting House (Boston: Crocker & Brewster, 1830). “Plan of the Lower Floor of the Old South Meeting House, in Boston, 1730” bound in. Blagden, G. W. Our Vows to God. A Sermon Preached in the Old South Church, Boston, at the Celebration of the Lord’s Supper, April 6, 1856 . . . Published by Request (Boston: Press of T. R. Marvin, 1856). Sermon and Addresses, at the Installation of the Rev. Jacob M. Manning, as Associate Pastor of the Old South Church in Boston, March 11, 1857 (Boston: T. R. Marvin & Son, 1857). Manning, Jacob M. A New-Year’s Address Delivered Before the Boston Young Men’s Christian Association in the Old South Church, Sabbath Evening, January 2, 1859 . . . (Boston: Published by the Association; Printed by Damrell and Moore, 1859). Exercises at a Consecration of the Flag of the Union, by the Old South Society in Boston, May 1st, 1861 (Boston: Printed by Alfred Mudge & Son, 1861). Pastor’s Memorial. Twenty-Fifth Anniversaryof the Installation of George W. Blagden . . . as Pastor of the Old South Church and Society in Boston (Boston: Published for the Use of the Members, 1862). Manning, Jacob M. The Soldier of Freedom. A Sermon Preached Before the Officers of the Forty-Third Regiment, M. V., in the Old South Church, Boston, Sunday Morning, Oct. 5, 1862 . . . Printed for the Use of the Regiment (Boston: J. E. Farwell and Company, Printers, 1862). Report of the Superintendent of the Chambers Street Chapel, Boston. April, 1863 (Boston: Wright & Potter, Printers, 1863). Submitted by Lothrop Loring, Superintendent of the Chambers Street Chapel. Chronicles of Old South Church, Being the Third Congregational Church in Boston. September 1st, 1861 (Boston: Alfred Mudge and Son, Printers, 1863). Palmer, Abraham J. The History of the Forty-Eighth Regiment New York State Volunteers, in the War for the Union. 1861-1865 . . . Illustrated . . . (Brooklyn, N. Y.: Published by the Veteran Association of the Regiment, 1885; for sale by Charles T. Dillingham, New York). Two copies, both including added materials. One includes added photographs, clippings, a printed letter (February 8, 1883) by James Atwater Barrett to “Comrade” regarding subscriptions to Palmer’s newly completed regimental history, an 1864 manuscript list of deceased soldiers of the Forty-Eighth Regiment at Andersonville, and a January 18, 1886 letter of sympathy from the George C. Strong Post, No. 534, to the recently widowed Jane Farmer Barrett. The other bears the bookplate of Margaret and James Peterson, the inscriptions “To / Nelly P. Barrett / from Mother / Jan. 1, 1886” and “To / James and Margaret / from mother Clara / June 27, 1934,” added clippings, and a printed handbill of the lyrics to “America” (“My Country ‘Tis of Thee”). [Pamphlets gathered together in home-made paper wrapper (front of wrapper detached)]: Societas Concordiae et Amicitiae. Address and Poem Delivered at the First Anniversary of the S. C. A., Concord, October 4th, 1856 ([Concord, Massachusetts]: Published by the Society for Private Distribution, 1856). Chadwick, John W. Green Pastures and Still Waters. A Sermon . . . 1889-90. October (Boston: George H. Ellis, [1889/1890]). Inscribed on title-page: “J. F. Barrett.” Emerson, Ralph Waldo. A Historical Discourse, Delivered Before the Citizens of Concord, 12th September, 1835, on the Second Centennial Anniversary of the Incorporation of the Town . . . Republished by Request (Boston: For Sale by W. B. Clarke; Press of Rand, Avery, and Company, [ca. 1875]). Inscribed in ink on front of wrapper: “J. A. Barrett / Brooklyn / N. Y.” Concord (Massachusetts). The Celebration in Concord of the One Hundredth Anniversary of the Birth of Abraham Lincoln. February the Twelfth 1909 (Concord: Printed by vote of the Town at the Annual Town Meeting held April 6th, 1909). Peattie, Elia W. Poems You Ought to Know. Selected by Elia W. Peattie . . . Illustrated by Ellsworth Young (Chicago; New York; Toronto; London and Edinburgh: Fleming H. Revell Company, copyright 1903). Inscribed in pencil on first printed page: “J. F. Barrett From Eliza Hosmer / Los Angeles Cal. / May-1908.” Verse in manuscript laid in. Clipping pasted to back paste-down endpaper. Porter, Jermain G. The Stars in Song and Legend . . . With Illustrations from the Drawings of Albrecht Dürer (Boston; London: Ginn & Company; The Athenaeum Press, 1901). Inscribed in ink on front free endpaper: “To Emma & Clara [“& Clara” crossed out] / Dec. 25, 1901.” Clipping on planets in the evening sky pasted in. Sheet of notes in ink and pencil tipped to back free endpaper. Prescott, William. The Prescott Memorial: or a Genealogical Memoir of the Prescott Families in America. In Two Parts . . . (Boston: Printed by Henry W. Dutton & Son, 1870). Inscribed “Mrs. J. F. Barrett / 4513 Lake Ave.” on front lining leaf. On the blank recto of frontispiece page: [in pencil] “J. A. Barrett” / [in ink] “James Atwater Barrett / Page 129.” Lengthy write-up of James Atwater Barrett’s Civil War experience begins on page 129. Rodeheaver, Homer A. Worth While Poems. Waif Gems of Verse Gathered from Here and There and Recited in Public Readings by Homer A. Rodeheaver (Chicago; Philadelphia: The Rodeheaver Company, 1916) In printed paper wrapper. Notes in ink on verso of title-page. Clipping (a poem by Belle Smith) laid in. Scott, Walter. The Lady of the Lake. A Poem in Six Cantos . . . With Notes and an Appendix from the Latest Edinburgh Edition (Chicago: M. A Donohue & Co., [no date of publication]). Pencil notes on front and back endpapers. Scott, Walter. The Poetical Works of Sir Walter Scott. Including Introduction and Notes. Complete Edition (New York: Thomas Y. Crowell & Co., [no date of publication]). Inscribed in pencil on front free endpaper: “Harry Peck [?] / from / Aunt Maria / 1888.” Title-page and another page near the beginning of the volume loose; spine damaged. Sears, Clara Endicott. Bronson Alcott’s Fruitlands. Compiled by Clara Endicott Sears. With Transcendental Wild Oats by Louisa M. Alcott (Boston; New York: Houghton Mifflin Company; The Riverside Press, Cambridge, 1915). Inscribed in ink on front free endpaper: “E. B. Lothrop / from Bernice / Xmas 1916.” Seymour, Mary. Chaucer’s Stories Simply Told . . . With Illustrations by E. M. Scannell (London; Edinburgh; New York: T. Nelson and Sons, 1884). Shakespeare, William. The Complete Dramatic and Poetical Works of William Shakspeare. Carefully Printed from the Text of the Latest Corrected Editions. Illustrated with Thirty Full-Page Engravings (New York: Hurst & Co., [no date of publication]). Inscribed in ink on front paste-down endpaper: “Goldwin T. Shephard.” A dried clover laid in. Social Circle in Concord. The Centennial of the Social Circle in Concord. March 21, 1882 . . . (Cambridge: Printed at the Riverside Press, 1882). Three copies. One copy inscribed in pencil on front lining leaf: “Mrs. J. F. Barrett.” One copy inscribed in ink on front lining leaf: “To James and Margaret / from mother Clara / June 27-1934.” One copy (water-damaged) inscribed in pencil (beneath another inscription): “Mrs. J. F. Barrett / 237 E. 65th st / Chicago / . . . ” Souvestre, Emile. An Attic Philosopher in Paris . . . (New York: H. M. Caldwell Company, [no date of publication]). Tennyson, Alfred. The Poetical Works of Alfred Lord Tennyson, Poet Laureate (New York; Boston: Thomas Y. Crowell & Co., copyright 1885). Binding damaged. Tymms, Samuel. An Architectural and Historical Account of the Church of St. Mary, Bury St. Edmund’s . . . (Bury St. Edmund’s: Jackson and Frost; London: Simpkin and Marshall, 1854). Inscribed in pencil on front free endpaper: “Thompson.” Inscribed on a slip of paper tipped to front free endpaper: “The property of / Miss N. Farmer.” Slip of paper on which page references to the Barrett (Barret, Baret) family are recorded tipped to back paste-down endpaper. A photograph and a clipping (“Dec 1900”) laid in. Front and back covers and pages at front of volume detached. The Week-End Book (Bloomsbury: The Nonesuch Press, 1931). Inscribed in ink on back paste-down endpaper: “Stanley from Agnes- / March 1932.” Whittier, John Greenleaf. The Complete Poetical Works of John Greenleaf Whittier. Household Edition. With Illustrations (Boston; New York: Houghton, Mifflin and Company; The Riverside Press, Cambridge, copyright 1892). Inscribed in ink on front lining leaf: “F. W. Peterson”; clipping tipped to same lining leaf. Painted bookmark laid in. Volume damaged (pages at front detached; some detached and torn pages within). Whittier, John Greenleaf. The Poetical Works of John Greenleaf Whittier. Complete in Two Volumes. Volume II (Boston: Ticknor & Fields, 1864). Inscribed in ink on front lining leaf: “Miss Jenny Farmer. / with the best wishes / of your affectionate friend / E. A. B. Thompson.” Inscribed in pencil below this: “To James / from / Mother.” Front and back covers and pages at end detached. Wilde, Oscar. The Plays of Oscar Wilde (New York: H. S. Nichols, copyright 1914). “The Cosmopolitan Library.” Volume damaged (front and back covers and pages at front and back detached). Wood, Albert E. How Our Great-Grandfathers Lived. Read Before the Concord Antiquarian Society . . . (Concord, Massachusetts: Concord Antiquarian Society, [1902]). In printed paper wrapper. Condition poor. Return to Top Return to Special Collections Finding Aids