Source: https://brittlepaper.com/2023/12/talented-south-african-author-and-chef-fatima-sydow-passes-on-aged-50/
Title: South African Author and Chef Fatima Sydow Passes On, Aged 50
Words: 1736

================================================================================

South African Author and Chef Fatima Sydow Passes On, Aged 50 by Kuhelika Ghosh December 21, 2023 South African chef and author Fatima Sydow has passed on at the age of 50. She died on December 19 after a long and courageous battle with cancer. Sydow’s passing is a great loss to the African literary and culinary community. Sydow’s book publisher NB Publishers, shared similar sentiments in a press release sent yesterday, in which they remark that Sydow’s “warm spirit, infectious passion and talent will be sorely missed by fans, colleagues and the community she touched with her magic.” Fatima Sydow was a cook and former caterer with a strong desire to use food to unite people. In 2011, she started her Facebook page where she shared her recipes, garnering a substantial following. In 2015, she self-published her first cookbook, The Journey of Cape Malay Cooking with Fatima Sydow. In 2020, she started a culinary YouTube channel that quickly gained traction, amassing 61,400 subscribers. Today, the channel has a whopping 167,000 subscribers. Soon after, Sydow decided to create and star in her very own cooking program on television with her twin sister Gadija. Titled Kaap, kerrie & koesisters and featured on Via TV (DStv 147), the dynamic duo brought tons of flavor to South African households and greatly impacted the national foodie landscape. The collaboration between the Sydow sisters resulted in the publication of the 2019 book Cape, Curry & Koesisters, available in both English and Afrikaans. Sydow continued to share her expertise in further cookbooks – Fatima Sydow Cooks (2021) and her most recent book, Fatima Sydow, Cape Malay Cooking (2023). We can definitely see how Sydow loved to unite her passions for cooking, sharing knowledge, and community gathering through her numerous endeavors – literary, on screen, social media, and in the kitchen. The CEO of NB Publishers, Eloise Wessels called Sydow a “cook of unsurpassed skill, a delightful author, and the loveliest person.” Sydow’s publisher, Lindy Samery added that she was a remarkable human: Fatima was more than an author, she became one of my good friends. We journeyed together on all her books – what a remarkable human. I am honoured to have known her. Fly high, my dearest Fati, till we meet again. We are deeply saddened by the news of Sydow’s passing. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her family and friends, and above all, we celebrate her life as she joins the ancestors. May her soul rest in peace, as her legacy continues to inspire and unite people through the love of food. South African chef and author Fatima Sydow has passed on at the age of 50. She died on December 19 after a long and courageous battle with cancer. Sydow’s passing is a great loss to the African literary and culinary community. Sydow’s book publisher NB Publishers, shared similar sentiments in a press release sent yesterday, in which they remark that Sydow’s “warm spirit, infectious passion and talent will be sorely missed by fans, colleagues and the community she touched with her magic.” Fatima Sydow was a cook and former caterer with a strong desire to use food to unite people. In 2011, she started her Facebook page where she shared her recipes, garnering a substantial following. In 2015, she self-published her first cookbook, The Journey of Cape Malay Cooking with Fatima Sydow. In 2020, she started a culinary YouTube channel that quickly gained traction, amassing 61,400 subscribers. Today, the channel has a whopping 167,000 subscribers. Soon after, Sydow decided to create and star in her very own cooking program on television with her twin sister Gadija. Titled Kaap, kerrie & koesisters and featured on Via TV (DStv 147), the dynamic duo brought tons of flavor to South African households and greatly impacted the national foodie landscape. The collaboration between the Sydow sisters resulted in the publication of the 2019 book Cape, Curry & Koesisters, available in both English and Afrikaans. Sydow continued to share her expertise in further cookbooks – Fatima Sydow Cooks (2021) and her most recent book, Fatima Sydow, Cape Malay Cooking (2023). We can definitely see how Sydow loved to unite her passions for cooking, sharing knowledge, and community gathering through her numerous endeavors – literary, on screen, social media, and in the kitchen. The CEO of NB Publishers, Eloise Wessels called Sydow a “cook of unsurpassed skill, a delightful author, and the loveliest person.” Sydow’s publisher, Lindy Samery added that she was a remarkable human: Fatima was more than an author, she became one of my good friends. We journeyed together on all her books – what a remarkable human. I am honoured to have known her. Fly high, my dearest Fati, till we meet again. We are deeply saddened by the news of Sydow’s passing. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her family and friends, and above all, we celebrate her life as she joins the ancestors. May her soul rest in peace, as her legacy continues to inspire and unite people through the love of food. Fatima Sydowobituary Fatima Sydow Kuhelika Ghosh | administrator Related Posts News Meet M. H. Ayinde, Sunday Times Bestselling Author of Yoruba-Inspired Fantasy A Song of Legends Lost by Submissions Editor News Afropolis, Lagos’s Experimental Arts Festival, Calls for Submissions, Invites Creatives to Imagine ‘Other Worlds’ by Blessing Uwisike News A New Small Press is Building a Literary Bridge Between Southern Africa and Scotland by Submissions Editor News Lolwe Magazine’s Eleventh Issue Explores the Role of Language and Silence by Jagravi Dave News A Nigerian Fiction Classic Gets a 2 Million-Dollar Animation Adaptation: Here is the Trailer by Blessing Uwisike Lifestyle• News South African Playwright Philisiwe Twijnstra Got a Book Deal and Celebrated with a Photoshoot by Submissions Editor COMMENTS - Reader Interactions LEAVE A COMMENT Cancel replyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ Related Posts News Meet M. H. Ayinde, Sunday Times Bestselling Author of Yoruba-Inspired Fantasy A Song of Legends Lost by Submissions Editor News Afropolis, Lagos’s Experimental Arts Festival, Calls for Submissions, Invites Creatives to Imagine ‘Other Worlds’ by Blessing Uwisike News A New Small Press is Building a Literary Bridge Between Southern Africa and Scotland by Submissions Editor News Lolwe Magazine’s Eleventh Issue Explores the Role of Language and Silence by Jagravi Dave News A Nigerian Fiction Classic Gets a 2 Million-Dollar Animation Adaptation: Here is the Trailer by Blessing Uwisike Lifestyle• News South African Playwright Philisiwe Twijnstra Got a Book Deal and Celebrated with a Photoshoot by Submissions Editor COMMENTS - Reader Interactions LEAVE A COMMENT Cancel replyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ News Meet M. H. Ayinde, Sunday Times Bestselling Author of Yoruba-Inspired Fantasy A Song of Legends Lost by Submissions Editor News Meet M. H. Ayinde, Sunday Times Bestselling Author of Yoruba-Inspired Fantasy A Song of Legends Lost by Submissions Editor News Meet M. H. Ayinde, Sunday Times Bestselling Author of Yoruba-Inspired Fantasy A Song of Legends Lost by Submissions Editor Meet M. H. Ayinde, Sunday Times Bestselling Author of Yoruba-Inspired Fantasy A Song of Legends Lost by Submissions Editor News Afropolis, Lagos’s Experimental Arts Festival, Calls for Submissions, Invites Creatives to Imagine ‘Other Worlds’ by Blessing Uwisike News Afropolis, Lagos’s Experimental Arts Festival, Calls for Submissions, Invites Creatives to Imagine ‘Other Worlds’ by Blessing Uwisike News Afropolis, Lagos’s Experimental Arts Festival, Calls for Submissions, Invites Creatives to Imagine ‘Other Worlds’ by Blessing Uwisike Afropolis, Lagos’s Experimental Arts Festival, Calls for Submissions, Invites Creatives to Imagine ‘Other Worlds’ by Blessing Uwisike News A New Small Press is Building a Literary Bridge Between Southern Africa and Scotland by Submissions Editor News A New Small Press is Building a Literary Bridge Between Southern Africa and Scotland by Submissions Editor News A New Small Press is Building a Literary Bridge Between Southern Africa and Scotland by Submissions Editor A New Small Press is Building a Literary Bridge Between Southern Africa and Scotland by Submissions Editor News Lolwe Magazine’s Eleventh Issue Explores the Role of Language and Silence by Jagravi Dave News Lolwe Magazine’s Eleventh Issue Explores the Role of Language and Silence by Jagravi Dave News Lolwe Magazine’s Eleventh Issue Explores the Role of Language and Silence by Jagravi Dave Lolwe Magazine’s Eleventh Issue Explores the Role of Language and Silence by Jagravi Dave News A Nigerian Fiction Classic Gets a 2 Million-Dollar Animation Adaptation: Here is the Trailer by Blessing Uwisike News A Nigerian Fiction Classic Gets a 2 Million-Dollar Animation Adaptation: Here is the Trailer by Blessing Uwisike News A Nigerian Fiction Classic Gets a 2 Million-Dollar Animation Adaptation: Here is the Trailer by Blessing Uwisike A Nigerian Fiction Classic Gets a 2 Million-Dollar Animation Adaptation: Here is the Trailer by Blessing Uwisike Lifestyle• News South African Playwright Philisiwe Twijnstra Got a Book Deal and Celebrated with a Photoshoot by Submissions Editor Lifestyle• News South African Playwright Philisiwe Twijnstra Got a Book Deal and Celebrated with a Photoshoot by Submissions Editor Lifestyle• News South African Playwright Philisiwe Twijnstra Got a Book Deal and Celebrated with a Photoshoot by Submissions Editor Lifestyle• News South African Playwright Philisiwe Twijnstra Got a Book Deal and Celebrated with a Photoshoot by Submissions Editor COMMENTS - Reader Interactions LEAVE A COMMENT Cancel replyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ COMMENTS - Reader Interactions LEAVE A COMMENT Cancel replyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ Reader Interactions LEAVE A COMMENT Cancel replyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ LEAVE A COMMENT Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.