Source: https://callofduty.fandom.com/wiki/Waters
Title: Waters | Call of Duty Wiki | Fandom
Words: 2273

================================================================================

in: Call of Duty British Characters English Español Русский Waters Sign in to edit History Purge Talk (0) in: Call of Duty British Characters English Español Русский in: Call of Duty British Characters in: Call of Duty British Characters English Español Русский English Español Русский Español Русский Waters Sign in to edit History Purge Talk (0) Sign in to edit History Purge Talk (0) History Purge Talk (0) History Purge Talk (0) For the character in Call of Duty: Finest Hour, see Waters (Finest Hour). "German lorry, coming up fast!" — Sgt. Waters Sergeant Waters was a British soldier assigned to 3 Troop of the 2nd SAS during World War II as featured in Call of Duty. Contents 1 Biography 2 Quotes 3 Gallery 4 Trivia Biography[] In 1944, he parachutes in with Price, Evans and another squad to sabotage the Eder Dam and extract Evans. During Sergeant Evan's first action as an SAS soldier, he assists Captain Price acquire a German Opel Blitz truck to extract Evans from the Eder Dam after his sabotage. To their fortune, there was a shipment of Panzerfaust 60s in it which would help them leave the area alive. He continues to cover Price as he uses his driving skills to leave the area towards an airfield. When they arrive, Waters gets on a MG-42 and covers Evans from infantry fire while he takes out Stukas attempting to destroy their position. When the second element of the SAS team gets a Focke-Wulf 200 Condor working, he extracts with the rest of the group. In the fall of 1944, Waters, Price and Evans infiltrate the Battleship Tirpitz off the coast of Norway. Waters protects the boat that they had hijacked from Kriegsmarine troopers while Price and Evans commence sabotage and espionage to the ship. Captain Price is killed to the lament of Sergeant Waters. He drives them out of the area. In February 1945 in Germany, he parachutes in with Evans on a mission to eradicate a V-2 launchpad named Batterie #445 located in Burgsteinfurt, Germany. Waters uses his Bren to support Evans as the latter plants bombs on the Flakvierling guns. The duo then meet up the rest of the team, and head north to eliminate the V-2s. He orders Evans to enter the bunkers and refuel the rockets, so that the remaining explosives could blow it up. After its destruction, the team exfiltrates. It is unknown what happened to Waters, but he most likely survived. Quotes[] "My God, we made it. I don't bloody believe it." "There they are! That's our plane! Blimey, she's a beauty!" "We lost the Captain? Damn. He was a very fine man. Let's get the hell out of here." "Good show, Evans! Bloody decent work, you may have just found yourself a career!" "Evans do you deaf and blind- or just dumb? Move your arse and take out that bloody Flak gun!" Gallery[] Waters on the Battleship TirptizWaters firing his Colt .45 Waters with his Bren LMGWaters handing Evans a Panzerfaust 60Sgt. Waters in Burgsteinfurt. Trivia[] When Waters gives the player the Scoped Kar98K, his class becomes "Sniper", even though he gave the player the rifle. v • d • eCharacters of Call of DutyAmericanMartin · Foley · Moody · Elder Avery · Baker · Brooks · Franklin · Harding · Heath · Jackson · Johnson · Lewis · Parker · Roe · Sheppard · TuckerBritishEvans · Price · Gerald Ingram · Waters · Davis · Mills · WatsonRussianAlexei Ivanovich Voronin · Borodin · Zubov · Pavlov · Kovalenko · Filatov · Kozlov · Makarov · Mikhail Petrenko · Soviet Radioman · GromovGermanSchmidt For the character in Call of Duty: Finest Hour, see Waters (Finest Hour). "German lorry, coming up fast!" — Sgt. Waters Sergeant Waters was a British soldier assigned to 3 Troop of the 2nd SAS during World War II as featured in Call of Duty. Contents 1 Biography 2 Quotes 3 Gallery 4 Trivia Biography[] In 1944, he parachutes in with Price, Evans and another squad to sabotage the Eder Dam and extract Evans. During Sergeant Evan's first action as an SAS soldier, he assists Captain Price acquire a German Opel Blitz truck to extract Evans from the Eder Dam after his sabotage. To their fortune, there was a shipment of Panzerfaust 60s in it which would help them leave the area alive. He continues to cover Price as he uses his driving skills to leave the area towards an airfield. When they arrive, Waters gets on a MG-42 and covers Evans from infantry fire while he takes out Stukas attempting to destroy their position. When the second element of the SAS team gets a Focke-Wulf 200 Condor working, he extracts with the rest of the group. In the fall of 1944, Waters, Price and Evans infiltrate the Battleship Tirpitz off the coast of Norway. Waters protects the boat that they had hijacked from Kriegsmarine troopers while Price and Evans commence sabotage and espionage to the ship. Captain Price is killed to the lament of Sergeant Waters. He drives them out of the area. In February 1945 in Germany, he parachutes in with Evans on a mission to eradicate a V-2 launchpad named Batterie #445 located in Burgsteinfurt, Germany. Waters uses his Bren to support Evans as the latter plants bombs on the Flakvierling guns. The duo then meet up the rest of the team, and head north to eliminate the V-2s. He orders Evans to enter the bunkers and refuel the rockets, so that the remaining explosives could blow it up. After its destruction, the team exfiltrates. It is unknown what happened to Waters, but he most likely survived. Quotes[] "My God, we made it. I don't bloody believe it." "There they are! That's our plane! Blimey, she's a beauty!" "We lost the Captain? Damn. He was a very fine man. Let's get the hell out of here." "Good show, Evans! Bloody decent work, you may have just found yourself a career!" "Evans do you deaf and blind- or just dumb? Move your arse and take out that bloody Flak gun!" Gallery[] Waters on the Battleship TirptizWaters firing his Colt .45 Waters with his Bren LMGWaters handing Evans a Panzerfaust 60Sgt. Waters in Burgsteinfurt. Trivia[] When Waters gives the player the Scoped Kar98K, his class becomes "Sniper", even though he gave the player the rifle. v • d • eCharacters of Call of DutyAmericanMartin · Foley · Moody · Elder Avery · Baker · Brooks · Franklin · Harding · Heath · Jackson · Johnson · Lewis · Parker · Roe · Sheppard · TuckerBritishEvans · Price · Gerald Ingram · Waters · Davis · Mills · WatsonRussianAlexei Ivanovich Voronin · Borodin · Zubov · Pavlov · Kovalenko · Filatov · Kozlov · Makarov · Mikhail Petrenko · Soviet Radioman · GromovGermanSchmidt For the character in Call of Duty: Finest Hour, see Waters (Finest Hour). "German lorry, coming up fast!" — Sgt. Waters Sergeant Waters was a British soldier assigned to 3 Troop of the 2nd SAS during World War II as featured in Call of Duty. Contents 1 Biography 2 Quotes 3 Gallery 4 Trivia Biography[] In 1944, he parachutes in with Price, Evans and another squad to sabotage the Eder Dam and extract Evans. During Sergeant Evan's first action as an SAS soldier, he assists Captain Price acquire a German Opel Blitz truck to extract Evans from the Eder Dam after his sabotage. To their fortune, there was a shipment of Panzerfaust 60s in it which would help them leave the area alive. He continues to cover Price as he uses his driving skills to leave the area towards an airfield. When they arrive, Waters gets on a MG-42 and covers Evans from infantry fire while he takes out Stukas attempting to destroy their position. When the second element of the SAS team gets a Focke-Wulf 200 Condor working, he extracts with the rest of the group. In the fall of 1944, Waters, Price and Evans infiltrate the Battleship Tirpitz off the coast of Norway. Waters protects the boat that they had hijacked from Kriegsmarine troopers while Price and Evans commence sabotage and espionage to the ship. Captain Price is killed to the lament of Sergeant Waters. He drives them out of the area. In February 1945 in Germany, he parachutes in with Evans on a mission to eradicate a V-2 launchpad named Batterie #445 located in Burgsteinfurt, Germany. Waters uses his Bren to support Evans as the latter plants bombs on the Flakvierling guns. The duo then meet up the rest of the team, and head north to eliminate the V-2s. He orders Evans to enter the bunkers and refuel the rockets, so that the remaining explosives could blow it up. After its destruction, the team exfiltrates. It is unknown what happened to Waters, but he most likely survived. Quotes[] "My God, we made it. I don't bloody believe it." "There they are! That's our plane! Blimey, she's a beauty!" "We lost the Captain? Damn. He was a very fine man. Let's get the hell out of here." "Good show, Evans! Bloody decent work, you may have just found yourself a career!" "Evans do you deaf and blind- or just dumb? Move your arse and take out that bloody Flak gun!" Gallery[] Waters on the Battleship TirptizWaters firing his Colt .45 Waters with his Bren LMGWaters handing Evans a Panzerfaust 60Sgt. Waters in Burgsteinfurt. Trivia[] When Waters gives the player the Scoped Kar98K, his class becomes "Sniper", even though he gave the player the rifle. v • d • eCharacters of Call of DutyAmericanMartin · Foley · Moody · Elder Avery · Baker · Brooks · Franklin · Harding · Heath · Jackson · Johnson · Lewis · Parker · Roe · Sheppard · TuckerBritishEvans · Price · Gerald Ingram · Waters · Davis · Mills · WatsonRussianAlexei Ivanovich Voronin · Borodin · Zubov · Pavlov · Kovalenko · Filatov · Kozlov · Makarov · Mikhail Petrenko · Soviet Radioman · GromovGermanSchmidt Sergeant Waters was a British soldier assigned to 3 Troop of the 2nd SAS during World War II as featured in Call of Duty. Contents 1 Biography 2 Quotes 3 Gallery 4 Trivia 1 Biography Biography[] In 1944, he parachutes in with Price, Evans and another squad to sabotage the Eder Dam and extract Evans. During Sergeant Evan's first action as an SAS soldier, he assists Captain Price acquire a German Opel Blitz truck to extract Evans from the Eder Dam after his sabotage. To their fortune, there was a shipment of Panzerfaust 60s in it which would help them leave the area alive. He continues to cover Price as he uses his driving skills to leave the area towards an airfield. When they arrive, Waters gets on a MG-42 and covers Evans from infantry fire while he takes out Stukas attempting to destroy their position. When the second element of the SAS team gets a Focke-Wulf 200 Condor working, he extracts with the rest of the group. In the fall of 1944, Waters, Price and Evans infiltrate the Battleship Tirpitz off the coast of Norway. Waters protects the boat that they had hijacked from Kriegsmarine troopers while Price and Evans commence sabotage and espionage to the ship. Captain Price is killed to the lament of Sergeant Waters. He drives them out of the area. In February 1945 in Germany, he parachutes in with Evans on a mission to eradicate a V-2 launchpad named Batterie #445 located in Burgsteinfurt, Germany. Waters uses his Bren to support Evans as the latter plants bombs on the Flakvierling guns. The duo then meet up the rest of the team, and head north to eliminate the V-2s. He orders Evans to enter the bunkers and refuel the rockets, so that the remaining explosives could blow it up. After its destruction, the team exfiltrates. It is unknown what happened to Waters, but he most likely survived. "My God, we made it. I don't bloody believe it." "There they are! That's our plane! Blimey, she's a beauty!" "We lost the Captain? Damn. He was a very fine man. Let's get the hell out of here." "Good show, Evans! Bloody decent work, you may have just found yourself a career!" "Evans do you deaf and blind- or just dumb? Move your arse and take out that bloody Flak gun!" Waters on the Battleship TirptizWaters firing his Colt .45 Waters with his Bren LMGWaters handing Evans a Panzerfaust 60Sgt. Waters in Burgsteinfurt. Waters on the Battleship Tirptiz Waters on the Battleship Tirptiz Waters firing his Colt .45 Waters firing his Colt .45 Waters with his Bren LMG Waters with his Bren LMG Waters handing Evans a Panzerfaust 60 Waters handing Evans a Panzerfaust 60 Sgt. Waters in Burgsteinfurt. Sgt. Waters in Burgsteinfurt. When Waters gives the player the Scoped Kar98K, his class becomes "Sniper", even though he gave the player the rifle. Martin · Foley · Moody · Elder Avery · Baker · Brooks · Franklin · Harding · Heath · Jackson · Johnson · Lewis · Parker · Roe · Sheppard · Tucker Evans · Price · Gerald Ingram · Waters · Davis · Mills · Watson Alexei Ivanovich Voronin · Borodin · Zubov · Pavlov · Kovalenko · Filatov · Kozlov · Makarov · Mikhail Petrenko · Soviet Radioman · Gromov Español Русский Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. Horror Sci-fi Call of Duty Español Русский Español Русский Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. Horror Sci-fi Call of Duty Horror Sci-fi Call of Duty Horror Sci-fi Call of Duty Call of Duty