Source: http://www.sefsc.org/gwen-ifill-stamp-dedication.html
Title: Gwen Ifill Stamp Dedication - Southeastern Stamp Expo
Words: 3915

================================================================================

United States Postal Service Stamp Dedication for the Gwen Ifill Stamp Please join us at an official ceremony of the United States Postal Service where we will dedicate the Gwen Ifill stamp. Date: Friday, January 31, 2020Time: 11 amLocation: Peachtree Corners Room, Hilton Atlanta Northeast, 5993 Peachtree Industrial Blvd., Peachtree Corners, Georgia 30092 (Directions)Host: Southeastern Stamp Expo, Sponsored by the Southeast Federation of Stamp Clubs Background On January 30, 2020, the United States Postal Service will issue a commemorative postage stamp honoring journalist Gwen Ifill. The official First Day of Issue Ceremony will take place on January 30, in Washington, DC.The stamp is part of the ongoing Black Heritage series of commemorative stamps. Historically, the USPS issues a new stamp in this series each year in January, in advance of the start of Black History month on February 1. The Gwen Ifill stamp is the 43rd stamp of the series. (You may see all the stamps of the series on ESPER's webpage)​Ms. Ifill was a renowned and prolific journalist who passed away from cancer in 2016. Her career spanned postings with The Baltimore Sun, The New York Times, and The Washington Post. In 1994, she moved to television as the Capitol Hill correspondent for NBC News. Her career then culminated with her appointment as host of the PBS program Washington Week in Review, becoming the first African-American woman to host a nationally televised US Public Affairs program. In 2009, she published the best-selling book The Breakthrough: Politics and Race in the Age of Obama.Ms. Ifill joins the ranks of small list of American Journalists celebrated on US stamps, including Ernie Pyle and Edward R. Murrow. The Gwen Ifill Commemorative Postage Stamp Date of Issue: January 30, 2020Subject: Gwen Ifill, Journalist, 1955-2016Denomination: Forever Stamp, United States first-class one-ounce domestic ratePhotograph: Robert Severi, from 2008Stamp Design: Derry Noyes​Layout: Panes of 20 USPS Stamp Dedication for Gwen Ifill Stamp, 1/31/2020, Peachtree Corners, GA 11am, January 31, 2020 in the Peachtree Corners Room, Hilton Atlanta Northeast, 5993 Peachtree Industrial Blvd., Peachtree Corners, GA 30092ProgramOpening Remarks, Foster Miller, Master of CeremoniesNational Anthem, Dewaine and Clarence Johnson, United States Postal ServiceWelcome, Scott Mark, Chair, Southeastern Stamp Expo 2020Featured Speakers (please see bios below) Dr. Warachal E. Faison, President, Ebony Society for Philatelic Events and Reflections (ESPER) Jovita Moore, News Anchor, WSB Channel 2 Atlanta Don Neal, Editor, Reflections (ESPER)Stamp Dedication and Unveiling, Cory Muldrow, Postmaster, USPS, Norcross, GeorgiaClosing RemarksAll attendees will receive a complimentary ceremony program, franked with the new Gwen Ifill stamp and a commemorative postmark.A Signing Ceremony will take place after the program, at approximately 11:40 am, where attendees can have their program signed by the speakers. Distinguished Guest Speakers Warachal Eileen Faison, MD, President ESPERDr. Warachal Faison is the president of the Ebony Society of Philatelic Events and Reflections (ESPER), a philatelic society whose members study the stamps celebrating African American achievements and the African diaspora as well as encourages African Americans to embrace all aspects of philately. Warachal has served as the Director of Social Media for ESPER since 2015 expanding its outreach via Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Pinterest, and LinkedIn. She has participated in other roles including actively participating as a member of the ESPER Media Task Force, interviewed stamp artist Jerry Pinkney during the 2016 World Stamp Show, APS (American Philatelic Society) Membership Committee member, and lecturer, including “Who is Dorothy Height?” at the 2017 Southeastern Stamp Expo. Warachal focuses on a number of themes as she collects stamps and covers. In particularly, she is drawn to philatelic material highlighting the following: Black history, women, health, places she has visited, and childhood interests. Why does she collect? Her answer is simple…hashtag included: #StampsTeach!Professionally, Warachal is a senior medical director with Pfizer, Inc. She received her medical degree and completed her psychiatry residency, including chief residency at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill School of Medicine and completed a clinical geriatric psychiatry fellowship at Duke University School of Medicine. A member of multiple boards and organizations, including Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc., Warachal graduated from North Carolina Central University with a BS degree in biology summa cum laude. Jovita Moore, News Anchor, WSB-TV Channel 2 AtlantaJovita Moore anchors the 5 p.m., 6 p.m. and 11 p.m. newscasts on Channel 2 Action News.Jovita joined WSB-TV in 1998. Her previous stations include WMC-TV in Memphis, Tennessee and KFSM in Fayetteville and Fort Smith, Arkansas.Jovita holds a Master’s of Science Degree in Broadcast Journalism from Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism in New York City. She has a Bachelor of Arts Degree from Bennington College in Bennington, Vermont.Jovita is a native New Yorker who proudly calls Atlanta home.Jovita is a busy mom who also donates countless hours to civic associations and non-profit organizations across metro Atlanta. She mentors students and sits on several boards of directors.Jovita is a member of the Atlanta Association of Black Journalists and the National Association of Black Journalists. She is a member of Leadership Atlanta’s Class of 2007, and a member of Outstanding Atlanta’s Class of 2004.She was featured on the 2007 list of 40 Under 40 by Georgia Trend Magazine, and was selected as one of Jezebel Magazine’s 50 Most Beautiful.Jovita has received several Emmy Awards during her years at WSB-TV.She says her most important accomplishments are her children.Follow Jovita on Facebook and Twitter @JovitaMoore Don Neal, Editor, Reflections (ESPER)Don Neal is the editor of Reflections, the quarterly journal of the Ebony Society of Philatelic Events and Reflections (commonly known as ESPER) since the July 2005 issue. Reflections has been a consistent award-winning publication including the Grand Award at the American Topical Association’s (ATA) literary competition. The color content of the newsletter has information that includes philatelic news, cultural history, membership happenings, a show calendar, websites of interest, and fun trivia, and it is available to members in a hard copy and in digital form.Don serves on the board of directors of the American Topical Association, is the creator of 6° Cachets, philatelic covers with a cultural connection, and has been a presenter at the National Postal Museum’s Lunchtime Lecture series.Professionally, Don is a retired public high school English teacher and department supervisor and a retired adjunct professor from Rutgers University. United States Postal Service Stamp Dedication for the Gwen Ifill Stamp Please join us at an official ceremony of the United States Postal Service where we will dedicate the Gwen Ifill stamp. Date: Friday, January 31, 2020Time: 11 amLocation: Peachtree Corners Room, Hilton Atlanta Northeast, 5993 Peachtree Industrial Blvd., Peachtree Corners, Georgia 30092 (Directions)Host: Southeastern Stamp Expo, Sponsored by the Southeast Federation of Stamp Clubs On January 30, 2020, the United States Postal Service will issue a commemorative postage stamp honoring journalist Gwen Ifill. The official First Day of Issue Ceremony will take place on January 30, in Washington, DC.The stamp is part of the ongoing Black Heritage series of commemorative stamps. Historically, the USPS issues a new stamp in this series each year in January, in advance of the start of Black History month on February 1. The Gwen Ifill stamp is the 43rd stamp of the series. (You may see all the stamps of the series on ESPER's webpage)​Ms. Ifill was a renowned and prolific journalist who passed away from cancer in 2016. Her career spanned postings with The Baltimore Sun, The New York Times, and The Washington Post. In 1994, she moved to television as the Capitol Hill correspondent for NBC News. Her career then culminated with her appointment as host of the PBS program Washington Week in Review, becoming the first African-American woman to host a nationally televised US Public Affairs program. In 2009, she published the best-selling book The Breakthrough: Politics and Race in the Age of Obama.Ms. Ifill joins the ranks of small list of American Journalists celebrated on US stamps, including Ernie Pyle and Edward R. Murrow. The Gwen Ifill Commemorative Postage Stamp Date of Issue: January 30, 2020Subject: Gwen Ifill, Journalist, 1955-2016Denomination: Forever Stamp, United States first-class one-ounce domestic ratePhotograph: Robert Severi, from 2008Stamp Design: Derry Noyes​Layout: Panes of 20 Date of Issue: January 30, 2020Subject: Gwen Ifill, Journalist, 1955-2016Denomination: Forever Stamp, United States first-class one-ounce domestic ratePhotograph: Robert Severi, from 2008Stamp Design: Derry Noyes​Layout: Panes of 20 Date of Issue: January 30, 2020Subject: Gwen Ifill, Journalist, 1955-2016Denomination: Forever Stamp, United States first-class one-ounce domestic ratePhotograph: Robert Severi, from 2008Stamp Design: Derry Noyes​Layout: Panes of 20 Date of Issue: January 30, 2020Subject: Gwen Ifill, Journalist, 1955-2016Denomination: Forever Stamp, United States first-class one-ounce domestic ratePhotograph: Robert Severi, from 2008Stamp Design: Derry Noyes​Layout: Panes of 20 USPS Stamp Dedication for Gwen Ifill Stamp, 1/31/2020, Peachtree Corners, GA 11am, January 31, 2020 in the Peachtree Corners Room, Hilton Atlanta Northeast, 5993 Peachtree Industrial Blvd., Peachtree Corners, GA 30092ProgramOpening Remarks, Foster Miller, Master of CeremoniesNational Anthem, Dewaine and Clarence Johnson, United States Postal ServiceWelcome, Scott Mark, Chair, Southeastern Stamp Expo 2020Featured Speakers (please see bios below) Dr. Warachal E. Faison, President, Ebony Society for Philatelic Events and Reflections (ESPER) Jovita Moore, News Anchor, WSB Channel 2 Atlanta Don Neal, Editor, Reflections (ESPER)Stamp Dedication and Unveiling, Cory Muldrow, Postmaster, USPS, Norcross, GeorgiaClosing RemarksAll attendees will receive a complimentary ceremony program, franked with the new Gwen Ifill stamp and a commemorative postmark.A Signing Ceremony will take place after the program, at approximately 11:40 am, where attendees can have their program signed by the speakers. Distinguished Guest Speakers Warachal Eileen Faison, MD, President ESPERDr. Warachal Faison is the president of the Ebony Society of Philatelic Events and Reflections (ESPER), a philatelic society whose members study the stamps celebrating African American achievements and the African diaspora as well as encourages African Americans to embrace all aspects of philately. Warachal has served as the Director of Social Media for ESPER since 2015 expanding its outreach via Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Pinterest, and LinkedIn. She has participated in other roles including actively participating as a member of the ESPER Media Task Force, interviewed stamp artist Jerry Pinkney during the 2016 World Stamp Show, APS (American Philatelic Society) Membership Committee member, and lecturer, including “Who is Dorothy Height?” at the 2017 Southeastern Stamp Expo. Warachal focuses on a number of themes as she collects stamps and covers. In particularly, she is drawn to philatelic material highlighting the following: Black history, women, health, places she has visited, and childhood interests. Why does she collect? Her answer is simple…hashtag included: #StampsTeach!Professionally, Warachal is a senior medical director with Pfizer, Inc. She received her medical degree and completed her psychiatry residency, including chief residency at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill School of Medicine and completed a clinical geriatric psychiatry fellowship at Duke University School of Medicine. A member of multiple boards and organizations, including Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc., Warachal graduated from North Carolina Central University with a BS degree in biology summa cum laude. Warachal Eileen Faison, MD, President ESPERDr. Warachal Faison is the president of the Ebony Society of Philatelic Events and Reflections (ESPER), a philatelic society whose members study the stamps celebrating African American achievements and the African diaspora as well as encourages African Americans to embrace all aspects of philately. Warachal has served as the Director of Social Media for ESPER since 2015 expanding its outreach via Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Pinterest, and LinkedIn. She has participated in other roles including actively participating as a member of the ESPER Media Task Force, interviewed stamp artist Jerry Pinkney during the 2016 World Stamp Show, APS (American Philatelic Society) Membership Committee member, and lecturer, including “Who is Dorothy Height?” at the 2017 Southeastern Stamp Expo. Warachal focuses on a number of themes as she collects stamps and covers. In particularly, she is drawn to philatelic material highlighting the following: Black history, women, health, places she has visited, and childhood interests. Why does she collect? Her answer is simple…hashtag included: #StampsTeach!Professionally, Warachal is a senior medical director with Pfizer, Inc. She received her medical degree and completed her psychiatry residency, including chief residency at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill School of Medicine and completed a clinical geriatric psychiatry fellowship at Duke University School of Medicine. A member of multiple boards and organizations, including Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc., Warachal graduated from North Carolina Central University with a BS degree in biology summa cum laude. Warachal Eileen Faison, MD, President ESPERDr. Warachal Faison is the president of the Ebony Society of Philatelic Events and Reflections (ESPER), a philatelic society whose members study the stamps celebrating African American achievements and the African diaspora as well as encourages African Americans to embrace all aspects of philately. Warachal has served as the Director of Social Media for ESPER since 2015 expanding its outreach via Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Pinterest, and LinkedIn. She has participated in other roles including actively participating as a member of the ESPER Media Task Force, interviewed stamp artist Jerry Pinkney during the 2016 World Stamp Show, APS (American Philatelic Society) Membership Committee member, and lecturer, including “Who is Dorothy Height?” at the 2017 Southeastern Stamp Expo. Warachal focuses on a number of themes as she collects stamps and covers. In particularly, she is drawn to philatelic material highlighting the following: Black history, women, health, places she has visited, and childhood interests. Why does she collect? Her answer is simple…hashtag included: #StampsTeach!Professionally, Warachal is a senior medical director with Pfizer, Inc. She received her medical degree and completed her psychiatry residency, including chief residency at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill School of Medicine and completed a clinical geriatric psychiatry fellowship at Duke University School of Medicine. A member of multiple boards and organizations, including Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc., Warachal graduated from North Carolina Central University with a BS degree in biology summa cum laude. Warachal Eileen Faison, MD, President ESPERDr. Warachal Faison is the president of the Ebony Society of Philatelic Events and Reflections (ESPER), a philatelic society whose members study the stamps celebrating African American achievements and the African diaspora as well as encourages African Americans to embrace all aspects of philately. Warachal has served as the Director of Social Media for ESPER since 2015 expanding its outreach via Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Pinterest, and LinkedIn. She has participated in other roles including actively participating as a member of the ESPER Media Task Force, interviewed stamp artist Jerry Pinkney during the 2016 World Stamp Show, APS (American Philatelic Society) Membership Committee member, and lecturer, including “Who is Dorothy Height?” at the 2017 Southeastern Stamp Expo. Warachal focuses on a number of themes as she collects stamps and covers. In particularly, she is drawn to philatelic material highlighting the following: Black history, women, health, places she has visited, and childhood interests. Why does she collect? Her answer is simple…hashtag included: #StampsTeach!Professionally, Warachal is a senior medical director with Pfizer, Inc. She received her medical degree and completed her psychiatry residency, including chief residency at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill School of Medicine and completed a clinical geriatric psychiatry fellowship at Duke University School of Medicine. A member of multiple boards and organizations, including Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc., Warachal graduated from North Carolina Central University with a BS degree in biology summa cum laude. Jovita Moore, News Anchor, WSB-TV Channel 2 AtlantaJovita Moore anchors the 5 p.m., 6 p.m. and 11 p.m. newscasts on Channel 2 Action News.Jovita joined WSB-TV in 1998. Her previous stations include WMC-TV in Memphis, Tennessee and KFSM in Fayetteville and Fort Smith, Arkansas.Jovita holds a Master’s of Science Degree in Broadcast Journalism from Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism in New York City. She has a Bachelor of Arts Degree from Bennington College in Bennington, Vermont.Jovita is a native New Yorker who proudly calls Atlanta home.Jovita is a busy mom who also donates countless hours to civic associations and non-profit organizations across metro Atlanta. She mentors students and sits on several boards of directors.Jovita is a member of the Atlanta Association of Black Journalists and the National Association of Black Journalists. She is a member of Leadership Atlanta’s Class of 2007, and a member of Outstanding Atlanta’s Class of 2004.She was featured on the 2007 list of 40 Under 40 by Georgia Trend Magazine, and was selected as one of Jezebel Magazine’s 50 Most Beautiful.Jovita has received several Emmy Awards during her years at WSB-TV.She says her most important accomplishments are her children.Follow Jovita on Facebook and Twitter @JovitaMoore Jovita Moore, News Anchor, WSB-TV Channel 2 AtlantaJovita Moore anchors the 5 p.m., 6 p.m. and 11 p.m. newscasts on Channel 2 Action News.Jovita joined WSB-TV in 1998. Her previous stations include WMC-TV in Memphis, Tennessee and KFSM in Fayetteville and Fort Smith, Arkansas.Jovita holds a Master’s of Science Degree in Broadcast Journalism from Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism in New York City. She has a Bachelor of Arts Degree from Bennington College in Bennington, Vermont.Jovita is a native New Yorker who proudly calls Atlanta home.Jovita is a busy mom who also donates countless hours to civic associations and non-profit organizations across metro Atlanta. She mentors students and sits on several boards of directors.Jovita is a member of the Atlanta Association of Black Journalists and the National Association of Black Journalists. She is a member of Leadership Atlanta’s Class of 2007, and a member of Outstanding Atlanta’s Class of 2004.She was featured on the 2007 list of 40 Under 40 by Georgia Trend Magazine, and was selected as one of Jezebel Magazine’s 50 Most Beautiful.Jovita has received several Emmy Awards during her years at WSB-TV.She says her most important accomplishments are her children.Follow Jovita on Facebook and Twitter @JovitaMoore Jovita Moore, News Anchor, WSB-TV Channel 2 AtlantaJovita Moore anchors the 5 p.m., 6 p.m. and 11 p.m. newscasts on Channel 2 Action News.Jovita joined WSB-TV in 1998. Her previous stations include WMC-TV in Memphis, Tennessee and KFSM in Fayetteville and Fort Smith, Arkansas.Jovita holds a Master’s of Science Degree in Broadcast Journalism from Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism in New York City. She has a Bachelor of Arts Degree from Bennington College in Bennington, Vermont.Jovita is a native New Yorker who proudly calls Atlanta home.Jovita is a busy mom who also donates countless hours to civic associations and non-profit organizations across metro Atlanta. She mentors students and sits on several boards of directors.Jovita is a member of the Atlanta Association of Black Journalists and the National Association of Black Journalists. She is a member of Leadership Atlanta’s Class of 2007, and a member of Outstanding Atlanta’s Class of 2004.She was featured on the 2007 list of 40 Under 40 by Georgia Trend Magazine, and was selected as one of Jezebel Magazine’s 50 Most Beautiful.Jovita has received several Emmy Awards during her years at WSB-TV.She says her most important accomplishments are her children.Follow Jovita on Facebook and Twitter @JovitaMoore Jovita Moore, News Anchor, WSB-TV Channel 2 AtlantaJovita Moore anchors the 5 p.m., 6 p.m. and 11 p.m. newscasts on Channel 2 Action News.Jovita joined WSB-TV in 1998. Her previous stations include WMC-TV in Memphis, Tennessee and KFSM in Fayetteville and Fort Smith, Arkansas.Jovita holds a Master’s of Science Degree in Broadcast Journalism from Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism in New York City. She has a Bachelor of Arts Degree from Bennington College in Bennington, Vermont.Jovita is a native New Yorker who proudly calls Atlanta home.Jovita is a busy mom who also donates countless hours to civic associations and non-profit organizations across metro Atlanta. She mentors students and sits on several boards of directors.Jovita is a member of the Atlanta Association of Black Journalists and the National Association of Black Journalists. She is a member of Leadership Atlanta’s Class of 2007, and a member of Outstanding Atlanta’s Class of 2004.She was featured on the 2007 list of 40 Under 40 by Georgia Trend Magazine, and was selected as one of Jezebel Magazine’s 50 Most Beautiful.Jovita has received several Emmy Awards during her years at WSB-TV.She says her most important accomplishments are her children.Follow Jovita on Facebook and Twitter @JovitaMoore Don Neal, Editor, Reflections (ESPER)Don Neal is the editor of Reflections, the quarterly journal of the Ebony Society of Philatelic Events and Reflections (commonly known as ESPER) since the July 2005 issue. Reflections has been a consistent award-winning publication including the Grand Award at the American Topical Association’s (ATA) literary competition. The color content of the newsletter has information that includes philatelic news, cultural history, membership happenings, a show calendar, websites of interest, and fun trivia, and it is available to members in a hard copy and in digital form.Don serves on the board of directors of the American Topical Association, is the creator of 6° Cachets, philatelic covers with a cultural connection, and has been a presenter at the National Postal Museum’s Lunchtime Lecture series.Professionally, Don is a retired public high school English teacher and department supervisor and a retired adjunct professor from Rutgers University. Don Neal, Editor, Reflections (ESPER)Don Neal is the editor of Reflections, the quarterly journal of the Ebony Society of Philatelic Events and Reflections (commonly known as ESPER) since the July 2005 issue. Reflections has been a consistent award-winning publication including the Grand Award at the American Topical Association’s (ATA) literary competition. The color content of the newsletter has information that includes philatelic news, cultural history, membership happenings, a show calendar, websites of interest, and fun trivia, and it is available to members in a hard copy and in digital form.Don serves on the board of directors of the American Topical Association, is the creator of 6° Cachets, philatelic covers with a cultural connection, and has been a presenter at the National Postal Museum’s Lunchtime Lecture series.Professionally, Don is a retired public high school English teacher and department supervisor and a retired adjunct professor from Rutgers University. Don Neal, Editor, Reflections (ESPER)Don Neal is the editor of Reflections, the quarterly journal of the Ebony Society of Philatelic Events and Reflections (commonly known as ESPER) since the July 2005 issue. Reflections has been a consistent award-winning publication including the Grand Award at the American Topical Association’s (ATA) literary competition. The color content of the newsletter has information that includes philatelic news, cultural history, membership happenings, a show calendar, websites of interest, and fun trivia, and it is available to members in a hard copy and in digital form.Don serves on the board of directors of the American Topical Association, is the creator of 6° Cachets, philatelic covers with a cultural connection, and has been a presenter at the National Postal Museum’s Lunchtime Lecture series.Professionally, Don is a retired public high school English teacher and department supervisor and a retired adjunct professor from Rutgers University. Don Neal, Editor, Reflections (ESPER)Don Neal is the editor of Reflections, the quarterly journal of the Ebony Society of Philatelic Events and Reflections (commonly known as ESPER) since the July 2005 issue. Reflections has been a consistent award-winning publication including the Grand Award at the American Topical Association’s (ATA) literary competition. The color content of the newsletter has information that includes philatelic news, cultural history, membership happenings, a show calendar, websites of interest, and fun trivia, and it is available to members in a hard copy and in digital form.Don serves on the board of directors of the American Topical Association, is the creator of 6° Cachets, philatelic covers with a cultural connection, and has been a presenter at the National Postal Museum’s Lunchtime Lecture series.Professionally, Don is a retired public high school English teacher and department supervisor and a retired adjunct professor from Rutgers University.