Source: https://media.dndbeyond.com/compendium-images/one-dnd/character-origins/CSWCVV0M4B6vX6E1/UA2022-CharacterOrigins.pdf?icid_source=house-ads&icid_medium=crosspromo&icid_campaign=playtest1
Words: 11262

================================================================================

©2022 Wizards of the Coast LLC 1 UNEARTHED ARCANA 2022 CHARACTER ORIGINS By Jeremy Crawford, with Christopher Perkins and Ray Winninger This document is the first in a series of Unearthed Arcana articles that present material designed for the Player’s Handbook coming out in 2024. The material here uses the rules in the 2014 Player’s Handbook, except where noted. Providing feedback on this document is one way you can help shape the next generation of D&D. Inside you’ll find the following content: Character Races. These are the Race options being considered for the Player’s Handbook—all with updated design. Character Backgrounds. Here you’ll see the fun role that a character’s Background is going to play in helping flesh out the character’s origin. Starting Languages. This section specifies the number of languages a character knows when created. Feats. Every 1st-level Feat mentioned herein appears in the “Feats” section, which contains both new and revised Feats. Rules Glossary. In this document, any term followed by an asterisk appears in a glossary at the end. This glossary defines certain rules terms that appear in this document, focusing on terms that have been clarified or redefined or that don’t appear in the 2014 Player’s Handbook. Before delving into these new options, please read the “This Is Playtest Material” sidebar. To learn more about the design in this article, we invite you to view the accompanying video. THIS IS PLAYTEST MATERIAL This article is presented for playtesting and feedback. This D&D material is in draft form, usable in your D&D campaign but not refined by full game development and editing. It isn’t officially part of the game. Feedback. The best way for you to give us feedback on this material is in the survey we’ll release on D&D Beyond. If we decide to make this material official, it will be refined based on your feedback, and then it will appear in a D&D book. Power Level. The character options you read here might be more or less powerful than options in the Player’s Handbook (2014). If a design survives playtesting, we adjust its power to the desirable level before official publication. This means an option could be more or less powerful in its final form. DETERMINING YOUR ORIGIN After choosing your character’s Class, it’s time to consider the character’s origin. Who are the character’s ancestors? And how did the character spend the years leading up to a life of adventure? To help answer those questions, you choose three things for the character: • a Race • a Background • a language A character’s Race represents ancestry and confers game traits to the character. A character’s Background is a collection of characteristics that represent the place and occupation that were most formative for the character. The Character Origin Overview table lists the traits your character gains from Race and Background. CHARACTER ORIGIN OVERVIEW Race Trait Description Creature Type Every character and monster in the game has a Creature Type.* Size A character’s Size determines the amount of space the character occupies, as explained in the 2014 Player’s Handbook. Speed Speed fuels a character’s movement, as explained in the 2014 Player’s Handbook. ©2022 Wizards of the Coast LLC 2 Life Span This life span is an average for a member of the Race—assuming the dangers of adventure don’t shorten that span! Special Traits Each Race provides special traits—a collection of abilities that characters gain from their ancestors. Background Trait Description Ability Score Bonus A Background grants a +2 bonus to one ability score and a +1 bonus to a different one. Skill Proficiencies You get two Skill Proficiencies from a Background. Tool Proficiency Each Background gives Tool Proficiency* with one tool. Language A character learns one language from a Background. Feat Each Background provides a 1st-level Feat—a special ability acquired in the character’s past. Equipment A Background provides a portion of a character’s starting equipment, with the rest coming from Class. Race and Background together help bring your character’s backstory into focus, and they distinguish the character from other members of the same Class. For example, two characters might both be members of the Fighter Class, but if one is a Human Guard and the other is a Dwarf Gladiator, the two bring different capabilities and flavor to the Class. After choosing a Race and a Background, you choose a language that your character knows, in addition to the Common tongue and whatever language you gained from the Background you chose. The combination of Race, Background, and languages provides fertile soil for your imagination, as you ponder your character’s earliest days and imagine the character’s family, occupation, hometown, and more. CHARACTER RACES When you choose your character’s Race, you determine whether your character is a member of the human race or of a fantastical race. This document provides descriptions and rules for the following Race options: Human, Ardling, Dragonborn, Dwarf, Elf, Gnome, Halfling, Orc, and Tiefling. The description of each Race includes a section of game traits, which your character gains if you select that Race. NPCs of the same ancestry don’t necessarily have the same traits, as explained in the Monster Manual; the traits here pertain to player characters. CHILDREN OF DIFFERENT HUMANOID KINDS Thanks to the magical workings of the multiverse, Humanoids of different kinds sometimes have children together. For example, folk who have a human parent and an orc or an elf parent are particularly common. Many other combinations are possible. If you’d like to play the child of such a wondrous pairing, choose two Race options that are Humanoid to represent your parents. Then determine which of those Race options provides your game traits: Size, Speed, and special traits. You can then mix and match visual characteristics—color, ear shape, and the like—of the two options. For example, if your character has a halfling and a gnome parent, you might choose Halfling for your game traits and then decide that your character has the pointed ears that are characteristic of a gnome. Finally, determine the average of the two options’ Life Span traits to figure out how long your character might live. For example, a child of a halfling and a gnome has an average life span of 288 years. HUMAN Found throughout the multiverse, humans are as varied as they are numerous. They are relatively short-lived, but they strive to achieve as much as they can in the years they are given. They are skilled pioneers and artisans. They are builders of nations, roads, cities, and ships. They ©2022 Wizards of the Coast LLC 3 strive to secure their place in the world and in the annals of history by creating art, amassing wealth, making laws, and questing for immortality. Their ambition and resourcefulness are commended, respected, and feared. Humans are as diverse in appearance as the people of Earth, and they have many gods. Scholars dispute the origin of humanity, but one of the earliest known human gatherings is said to have occurred in Sigil, the torus-shaped city at the center of the multiverse and the place where the Common tongue was born. From there, humans could have spread to every corner of the multiverse, bringing Sigil’s cosmopolitanism with them. HUMAN TRAITS Creature Type: Humanoid Size: Medium (about 4–7 feet tall) or Small (about 2–4 feet tall), chosen when you select this Race Speed: 30 feet Life Span: 80 years on average As a Human, you have these special traits. Resourceful. You gain Inspiration* whenever you finish a Long Rest.* Skillful. You gain Proficiency in one Skill of your choice. Versatile. You gain the Skilled Feat or another 1st-level Feat of your choice. HUMANS OF MANY WORLDS On any given world in the multiverse, the material culture of humans can change from one region to another. In the Forgotten Realms, for example, the clothing, architecture, cuisine, music, and literature are wildly different in the Western Heartlands than in the frozen north of Icewind Dale. As humans migrate, they bring elements of their cultures with them, giving rise to diverse settlements that contain people with different physical characteristics, not to mention a medley of clothing styles, customs, and beliefs. ARDLING Ardlings are supernal beings who are either born on the Upper Planes or have one or more ancestors who originated there. Their bright souls shine with the light of immortal beings who call the Upper Planes home. An ardling has a head resembling that of an animal, typically one with virtuous associations. Depending on the animal, the ardling might also have soft fur, downy feathers, or supple bare skin. The ardling’s celestial legacy determines the animal it resembles. An ardling gains a measure of magical power from their celestial legacy, as well as the ability to manifest spectral wings. An ardling’s moral and ethical outlook is self-determined, however, not fixed by ancestry. The three celestial legacies are as follows: Exalted. The fierce passions of Arborea, the heroic heart of Ysgard, and the wondrous nature of the Beastlands call to ardlings who have the Exalted celestial legacy. Their celestial ancestors are heroic champions of the Chaotic Good planes. Heavenly. The blissful harmony of Arcadia, the unwavering justice of Mount Celestia, and the bucolic paradise of Bytopia touch the souls of ardlings who have the Heavenly celestial legacy. Their celestial ancestors are staunch defenders of the Lawful Good planes. Idyllic. The Idyllic celestial legacy connects ardlings not only to the Beastlands and Bytopia but also to the eternal compassion of Elysium. Their celestial ancestors are paragons of kindness who hail from the Neutral Good planes. ARDLING TRAITS Creature Type: Humanoid Size: Medium (about 4–7 feet tall) or Small (about 3–4 feet tall), chosen when you select this Race Speed: 30 feet Life Span: 200 years on average As an Ardling, you have these special traits. Angelic Flight. As a Bonus Action, you sprout spectral wings for a moment and fly up to a number of feet equal to your Speed. If you are in the air at the end of this movement, you fall if nothing is holding you aloft. You can use this Bonus Action a number of times equal to your Proficiency Bonus, and you regain all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest.* ©2022 Wizards of the Coast LLC 4 Celestial Legacy. You are the recipient of a celestial legacy that grants you magical abilities. Choose a legacy from the Celestial Legacies table: Exalted, associated with Chaotic Good planes; Heavenly, associated with Lawful Good planes; or Idyllic, associated with Neutral Good planes. You gain the initial benefit of the chosen legacy: a cantrip that you learn. You also choose the animal you most closely resemble; the table provides a few suggestions for each legacy (you don’t gain wings by choosing an animal that can fly). Starting at 3rd level and again at 5th level, you gain the ability to cast a higher-level Spell with this trait, as shown on the table. Once you cast the Spell with this trait, you can’t cast that Spell with it again until you finish a Long Rest; however, you can cast the Spell using any Spell Slots you have of the appropriate level. Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma is your spellcasting ability for the Spells you cast with this trait (choose the ability when you select the legacy). Damage Resistance. You have Resistance to Radiant Damage. ARDLINGS OF MANY WORLDS Ardlings bring a little bit of the Upper Planes with them wherever they go. On many worlds, the first ardlings used the magic of their celestial legacies to inspire and heal others. By virtue of their celestial legacies, some ardlings strive to make the world a better place. Others use their supernal gifts to be the best version of themselves they can be. Still others are delighted to have a connection to the Upper Planes without the responsibility of always having to do the right thing. DRAGONBORN The earliest dragonborn hatched from the eggs of chromatic and metallic dragons. One story holds that these eggs were blessed by the dragon gods Bahamut and Tiamat, who wanted to populate the worlds of dragons with people created in their image. Another story holds that dragons created the first dragonborn without the gods’ blessings. Whatever their origin, dragonborn have made homes for themselves on the worlds of the Material Plane. Dragonborn look like wingless, bipedal dragons—scaly, bright-eyed, and thick-boned, with horns on their heads. Dragonborn of chromatic ancestry have scales that are black, blue, green, red, or white, whereas dragonborn of metallic ancestry have scales that are the color of brass, bronze, copper, gold, or silver. When two dragonborn whose scales are of different colors produce a child, their offspring’s scales match those of one parent or the other. Like their draconic ancestors, dragonborn can exhale acid, cold, fire, lightning, or poison. One can tell the type of energy a dragonborn breathes by the color of the dragonborn’s scales. DRAGONBORN TRAITS Creature Type: Humanoid Size: Medium (about 5–7 feet tall) Speed: 30 feet Life Span: 80 years on average As a Dragonborn, you have these special traits. Draconic Ancestry. Your lineage stems from a dragon progenitor. Choose the type of dragon from the Draconic Ancestor table. Your choice affects your Breath Weapon and Damage Resistance traits. The chosen dragon also affects your appearance, with you displaying coloration and other features reminiscent of that dragon. DRACONIC ANCESTOR Dragon Damage Type Black Acid Blue Lightning Brass Fire Bronze Lightning Copper Acid CELESTIAL LEGACIES Legacy Suggested Animals 1st Level 3rd Level 5th Level Exalted Cat, eagle, goat, mule Thaumaturgy Divine Favor Lesser Restoration Heavenly Elephant, owl, pig, stork Light Cure Wounds Zone of Truth Idyllic Bear, dog, raven, toad Guidance Healing Word Animal Messenger ©2022 Wizards of the Coast LLC 5 Gold Fire Green Poison Red Fire Silver Cold White Cold Breath Weapon. As an Action, you exhale destructive energy in a 15-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a Dexterity saving throw against a DC equal to 8 + your Constitution modifier + your Proficiency Bonus. On a failed save, a creature takes 1d10 + your character level in damage of the type determined by your Draconic Ancestry trait. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage. You can use this Breath Weapon a number of times equal to your Proficiency Bonus, and you regain all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest.* Damage Resistance. You have Resistance to the damage type determined by your Draconic Ancestry trait. Darkvision. You have Darkvision with a range of 60 feet. Draconic Language. You instinctively know the language of dragons. You can therefore speak, read, and write Draconic. DRAGONBORN OF MANY WORLDS Like dragons, dragonborn have a mystical bond to the Material Plane and are spread across its many worlds. On some worlds, the earliest dragonborn settlements were built near dragon lairs so that the dragonborn could pay tribute to their draconic progenitors. Many of these ancient settlements still exist. For example, the dragon-ruled continent of Argonnessen (on the world of Eberron) has dragonborn cities tucked among its mountain ranges. On other worlds, dragonborn ply their skills in settlements populated mostly by non-dragonborn, fulfilling an urge to expand their presence and influence, much as dragons do. DWARF Resilient like the mountains, dwarves were raised up from the earth in the elder days by a deity of the forge. Called by various names on different worlds—Moradin, Reorx, and others—that god gave dwarves an affinity for stone and metal and for living underground. Squat and often bearded, the original dwarves carved cities and strongholds into mountainsides and under the earth. Their oldest legends tell of conflicts with the monsters of mountaintops and the Underdark, whether those monsters were towering giants or subterranean horrors. Inspired by those tales, dwarves of any culture often sing of valorous deeds—especially of the little overcoming the mighty. DWARF TRAITS Creature Type: Humanoid Size: Medium (about 4–5 feet tall) Speed: 30 feet Life Span: 350 years on average As a Dwarf, you have these special traits. Darkvision. You have Darkvision with a range of 60 feet. Dwarven Resilience. You have Resistance to Poison Damage. You also have Advantage on saving throws you make to avoid or end the Poisoned Condition on yourself. Dwarven Toughness. Your Hit Point Maximum increases by 1, and it increases by 1 again whenever you gain a level. Forge Wise. Your divine creator gave you an uncanny affinity for working with stone or metal. You gain Tool Proficiency* with two of the following options of your choice: Jeweler’s Tools, Mason’s Tools, Smith’s Tools, or Tinker’s Tools. Stonecunning. As a Bonus Action, you gain Tremorsense* with a range of 60 feet for 10 minutes. You must be on a stone surface or touching such a surface to use this Tremorsense. The stone can be natural or worked. You can use this Bonus Action a number of times equal to your Proficiency Bonus, and you regain all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest.* DWARVES OF MANY WORLDS On some worlds in the multiverse, the first dwarven settlements were built in hills or mountains, and the dwarven families who trace their ancestry to those settlements call themselves hill dwarves or mountain dwarves, respectively. Oerth and Krynn (the worlds of ©2022 Wizards of the Coast LLC 6 the Greyhawk and Dragonlance settings, respectively) are examples of worlds that have such dwarven communities. In other worlds, dwarves have given themselves other cultural designations. For example, on the continent of Faerûn in the Forgotten Realms, the dwarves of the south call themselves gold dwarves, and the dwarves of the north are shield dwarves. ELF Created by the god Corellon, the first elves could change their physical forms at will. The elves lost this ability when Corellon exiled them from Arvandor for plotting with another elven deity named Lolth, who tried and failed to usurp Corellon’s dominion. When Lolth was cast down into the Abyss, most elves renounced her treachery and earned Corellon’s forgiveness, but that which Corellon had taken from the elves was lost forever. No longer able to shape-shift at will, the elves retreated to the Feywild, where their sorrow was deepened by that plane’s influence. Over time, wanderlust and curiosity led many of them to explore other planes of existence, including various worlds in the Material Plane. Elves have the mystical ability to take on characteristics of the environments with which they are bonded—drow to the Underdark, high elves to fey crossings in the Material Plane, and wood elves to forests. These connections grant elves access to certain kinds of magic. Elves are blessed with long lives and long memories. From birth, they don’t sleep but instead enter a trance when they need to rest. In this state, elves remain aware of their surroundings while immersing themselves in their own memories. What an elf remembers during this reverie depends largely on how long the elf has lived and the events that have shaped the elf’s existence. Elves have pointed ears and tend to be light on their feet. Another common physical characteristic of elves is their lack of facial and body hair. ELF TRAITS Creature Type: Humanoid Size: Medium (about 5–6 feet tall) Speed: 30 feet Life Span: 750 years on average As an Elf, you have these special traits. Darkvision. You have Darkvision with a range of 60 feet. Elven Lineage. You are part of an elven lineage that grants you supernatural abilities. Choose a lineage from the Elven Lineages table: Drow, the lineage of the Underdark; High Elf, the lineage of fey crossings and other magical locations; or Wood Elf, the lineage of primeval forests. You gain the 1st-level benefit of that lineage. Starting at 3rd level and again at 5th level, you also gain the ability to cast a Spell with this trait. Once you cast the Spell with this trait, you can’t cast that Spell with it again until you finish a Long Rest*; however, you can cast the Spell using any Spell Slots you have of the appropriate level. Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma is your spellcasting ability for the Spells you cast with this trait (choose the ability when you select the lineage). Fey Ancestry. You have Advantage on saving throws you make to avoid or end the Charmed Condition on yourself. Keen Senses. You have Proficiency in the Perception Skill. Trance. You don’t need to sleep, and magic can’t put you to sleep. You can finish a Long ELVEN LINEAGES Lineage 1st Level 3rd Level 5th Level Drow The range of your Darkvision increases to 120 feet. You also know the Dancing Lights cantrip. Faerie Fire Darkness High Elf You know the Prestidigitation cantrip. Whenever you finish a Long Rest,* you can replace that cantrip with a different cantrip from the Arcane Spell List.* Detect Magic Misty Step Wood Elf Your Speed increases to 35 feet. You also know the Druidcraft cantrip. Longstrider Pass without Trace ©2022 Wizards of the Coast LLC 7 Rest* in 4 hours if you spend those hours in a trancelike meditation, during which you retain consciousness. ELVES OF MANY WORLDS After leaving the Feywild, elves established deep roots on worlds throughout the multiverse. Within their respective domains, elves often use their magic and other resources to build fabulous enclaves. The subterranean cities and outposts of the drow, the gleaming towers and citadels of the high elves, and the forest sanctuaries of the wood elves are nothing short of architectural wonders, which reflect their builders’ otherworldly origins. Drow. Known for their white hair and dusky-gray skin tones, drow typically dwell in the Underdark. Noteworthy exceptions include Drizzt Do’Urden and Jarlaxle Baenre, two drow adventurers of the Forgotten Realms who shun their subterranean homeland. Some drow societies avoid the Underdark altogether. On the world of Eberron, for example, drow dwell in gloomy rainforests and cyclopean ruins on the continent of Xen’drik. High Elves. On some worlds, high elves refer to themselves by other names. For example, the sun elves and moon elves of Toril (the world of the Forgotten Realms setting) are high elves, as are the Silvanesti and Qualinesti of Krynn (the world of Dragonlance) and the Aereni of Eberron. Wood Elves. Wood elves are known across the multiverse by many other names, including wild elves, green elves, and forest elves. Grugach are reclusive wood elves on Oerth (the world of the Greyhawk setting), while the Kagonesti and the Tairnadal are wood elves of Krynn and Eberron, respectively. GNOME Gnomes are magical folk created by gods of hard work, invention, trickery, and life underground. The earliest gnomes were seldom seen by other folk due to the gnomes’ secretive nature and their propensity for lairing in sylvan forests, hillside burrows, and sprawling warrens under mountains. What they lacked in size, they made up for in cleverness and cunning. They confounded predators with elaborate traps and low, narrow, labyrinthine tunnels. They also learned useful magic from gods like Garl Glittergold, Baervan Wildwanderer, and Baravar Cloakshadow, who often lived among them (usually in disguise). Gnomes are petite folk with big eyes, pointed ears, and wistful imaginations. Harkening back to a time when their ancestors hid in tunnels and under thick forest canopies, many gnomes like the feeling of a roof over their head, even if that “roof” is nothing more than a hat. GNOME TRAITS Creature Type: Humanoid Size: Small (about 3–4 feet tall) Speed: 30 feet Life Span: 425 years on average As a Gnome, you have these special traits. Darkvision. You have Darkvision with a range of 60 feet. Gnomish Cunning. You have Advantage on Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma saving throws. Gnomish Lineage. You are part of a gnomish lineage that grants you supernatural abilities. Choose a lineage from the Gnomish Lineages table: Forest Gnome, the lineage of magic-filled forests, or Rock Gnome, the lineage of primeval mountains. You gain the benefits of that lineage. Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma is your spellcasting ability for the Spells you cast with this trait (choose the ability when you select the lineage). GNOMISH LINEAGES Lineage Benefit Forest Gnome You know the Minor Illusion cantrip. You can also cast the Speak with Animals Spell with this trait. You can cast it with the trait a number of times equal to your Proficiency Bonus, and you regain all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest.* You can also use any Spell Slots you have to cast the Spell. Rock Gnome You know the Mending and Prestidigitation cantrips. ©2022 Wizards of the Coast LLC 8 In addition, you can spend 10 minutes casting Prestidigitation to create a Tiny clockwork device (AC 5, 1 HP), such as a toy, a fire starter, or a music box. Casting the Spell in this way consumes 10 GP worth of raw material (string, gears, and the like), which you provide during the casting. When you create the device, you determine its function by choosing one effect from Prestidigitation; the device produces that effect whenever you or another creature takes a Bonus Action to touch the device and activate it. If the chosen effect has options within it, you choose one of those options for the device when you create it. For example, if you choose the spell’s ignite-extinguish effect, you determine whether the device ignites or extinguishes fire; the device doesn’t do both. You can have three such devices in existence at a time, and each one dismantles itself 8 hours after its creation. You can also touch one of your devices and dismantle it as an Action. After a device is dismantled, the 10 GP of materials used to create it can be reclaimed. GNOMES OF MANY WORLDS Gnomes past and present are known to equate secrecy with safety, which is why gnome settlements are often tucked away or concealed by magical illusions. Forest Gnomes. Gnomes who have ancestral ties to forests are called forest gnomes. They use their magic to befriend small forest animals and rely on them for news concerning their neighbors—be they malevolent or benign. Rock Gnomes. Gnomes whose ancestors dwelled under mountains are called rock gnomes. On some worlds, including Krynn (the world of the Dragonlance setting), rock gnomes are also known as tinker gnomes due to their fondness for artifice and clockwork inventions. HALFLING Cherished and guided by gods who value life, home, and hearth, halflings gravitate toward bucolic havens where family and community help shape their lives. That said, many halflings are blessed (some might say cursed) with a brave and adventurous spirit that leads them on journeys of discovery, affording them the chance to explore a bigger world and make new friends along the way. Their size—being not unlike that of a human child—helps them avoid unwanted entanglements and slip into and out of tight spaces. Anyone who has spent time around halflings, and particularly halfling adventurers, has likely witnessed the storied “luck of the halflings” in action. When a halfling is in mortal danger, it seems as though an unseen force intervenes on the halfling’s behalf. Many halflings believe in the power of luck, and they attribute their unusual gift to one or more of their benevolent gods, including Yondalla, Brandobaris, and Charmalaine. HALFLING TRAITS Creature Type: Humanoid Size: Small (about 2–3 feet tall) Speed: 30 feet Life Span: 150 years on average As a Halfling, you have these special traits. Brave. You have Advantage on saving throws you make to avoid or end the Frightened Condition on yourself. Halfling Nimbleness. You can move through the space of any creature that is of a Size larger than yours, but you can’t stop there. Luck. When you roll a 1 on the d20 of a d20 Test,* you can reroll the die, and you must use the new roll. Naturally Stealthy. You have Proficiency in the Stealth Skill. HALFLINGS OF MANY WORLDS On many worlds, halflings are walking, talking contradictions: home, tradition, and pastoral pursuits collide with a gods-given love of adventure and a knack for getting into and out of trouble. Halfling communities come in all varieties. For every sequestered halfling shire tucked away in some unspoiled corner of the world, there’s a halfling crime syndicate like the ©2022 Wizards of the Coast LLC 9 Boromar Clan on the world of Eberron or a territorial mob of halflings like those found on the world of Athas. Some halfling settlers, particularly ones who prefer to live underground, are thought to have a little bit of dwarven blood coursing through their veins and are sometimes called strongheart halflings or stouts. Nomadic halflings, as well as those who live among humans and other tall folk, are sometimes called lightfoot halflings or tallfellows. ORC Orcs trace their creation to Gruumsh, the One-Eyed God, an unstoppable warrior and powerful leader. Gruumsh armed his children with certain gifts to help them thrive on worlds beset by monsters. Even when they turn their devotion to other gods, orcs retain the gifts that the One-Eyed God bestowed upon them: might, endurance, determination, and the ability to see in the dark. Orcs are, on average, tall and broad. They have gray skin, ears that are small and slightly pointed, and prominent lower canines that resemble small tusks. Young orcs are often told about their ancestors’ ancient conflicts with elves in forests, dwarves under mountains, and invaders from evil planes of existence. Inspired by those tales, young orcs often wonder when Gruumsh will call on them to match the heroic deeds of their ancestors, and if they will prove worthy of the One-Eyed God’s grace. ORC TRAITS Creature Type: Humanoid Size: Medium (about 6–7 feet tall) Speed: 30 feet Life Span: 80 years on average As an Orc, you have these special traits. Adrenaline Rush. You can take the Dash Action as a Bonus Action. When you do so, you gain a number of Temporary Hit Points equal to your Proficiency Bonus. You can use this trait a number of times equal to your Proficiency Bonus, and you regain all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest.* Darkvision. You have Darkvision with a range of 60 feet. Powerful Build. You count as one Size larger when determining your carrying capacity and the weight you can push, drag, or lift. Relentless Endurance. When you are reduced to 0 Hit Points but not killed outright, you can drop to 1 Hit Point instead. Once you use this trait, you can’t do so again until you finish a Long Rest.* ORCS OF MANY WORLDS On many worlds, orcs occupy territory claimed by their ancestors. Their settlements and strongholds can be found almost anywhere, above ground and below. Orcs sometimes flock to the banners of powerful monarchs. King Obould Many-Arrows of Toril (the world of the Forgotten Realms setting) is one such figure, his strength tempered by a willingness to make peace with his enemies. On worlds such as Eberron, orcs were among those who defended the natural order from the encroachments of Fiends and other extraplanar threats. Their descendants learned to live in harmony with their neighbors and the natural world, and to many of them, Gruumsh’s wars are distant memories. TIEFLING Tieflings are either born in the Lower Planes or have one or more fiendish ancestors who originated there. A tiefling (pronounced TEEF-ling) is linked by blood to a devil, a demon, a yugoloth, or some other Fiend. This connection to the Lower Planes is, for better or worse, the tiefling’s fiendish legacy, which comes with the promise of power yet has no effect on the tiefling’s moral outlook. A tiefling chooses whether to embrace or lament their fiendish legacy. The three legacies are as follows: Abyssal. The heartless entropy of the Abyss, the howling chaos of Pandemonium, and the vast despair of Carceri call to tieflings who have the Abyssal fiendish legacy. Horns, fur, tusks, black blood, and peculiar odors are common physical features of such tieflings, most of whom have the blood of demons coursing through their veins. ©2022 Wizards of the Coast LLC 10 Chthonic. Tieflings who have the Chthonic fiendish legacy not only feel the tug of Carceri but also the greed of Gehenna and the underworld gloom of Hades. Some of these tieflings look cadaverous. Others possess the unearthly beauty of an incubus or a succubus, or they have physical features in common with a night hag, a yugoloth, or some other Neutral Evil fiendish ancestor. Infernal. The Infernal fiendish legacy binds tieflings by blood not only to Gehenna but also the raging battlefields of Acheron and the diabolical Nine Hells. Horns, spines, tails, golden eyes, and a faint odor of sulfur or smoke are common physical features of such tieflings, most of whom trace their ancestry to devils. TIEFLING TRAITS Creature Type: Humanoid Size: Medium (about 4–7 feet tall) or Small (about 3–4 feet tall) , chosen when you select this Race Speed: 30 feet Life Span: 100 years on average As a Tiefling, you have these special traits. Darkvision. You have Darkvision with a range of 60 feet. Fiendish Legacy. You are the recipient of a fiendish legacy that grants you supernatural abilities. Choose a legacy from the Fiendish Legacies table: Abyssal, associated with Chaotic Evil planes; Chthonic, associated with Neutral Evil planes; or Infernal, associated with Lawful Evil planes. You gain the 1st-level benefit of the chosen legacy. Starting at 3rd level and again at 5th level, you gain the ability to cast a higher-level Spell with this trait, as shown on the table. Once you cast the Spell with this trait, you can’t cast that Spell with it again until you finish a Long Rest*; however, you can cast the Spell using any Spell Slots you have of the appropriate level. Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma is your spellcasting ability for the Spells you cast with this trait (choose the ability when you select the lineage). Otherworldly Presence. You know the Thaumaturgy cantrip. When you cast it with this trait, the Spell uses the same spellcasting ability you use for your Fiendish Legacy trait. TIEFLINGS OF MANY WORLDS Tieflings born in the Lower Planes often migrate to other planes of existence and never look back. Their descendants are scattered across many worlds and are especially prevalent in Sigil, the torus-shaped city at the center of the multiverse. The earliest tieflings joined ranks with non-tieflings to repel fiendish incursions on many worlds, earning the trust of those who might otherwise have mistaken them for Fiends. Thanks to the victories and sacrifices of these legends, tieflings throughout the multiverse enjoy widespread acceptance. CHARACTER BACKGROUNDS Your character’s Background is a collection of characteristics that represent the place and occupation that were most formative for the character before they embarked on a life of adventure. When you choose a Background, you have three options: • Build a Background by using the rules in the “Build Your Background” section. • Select a premade Background from the “Sample Backgrounds” section. • Select a premade Background from the “Sample Backgrounds” section and then FIENDISH LEGACIES Legacy 1st Level 3rd Level 5th Level Abyssal You have Resistance to Poison Damage. You also know the Poison Spray cantrip. Ray of Sickness Hold Person Chthonic You have Resistance to Necrotic Damage. You also know the Chill Touch cantrip. False Life Ray of Enfeeblement Infernal You have Resistance to Fire Damage. You also know the Fire Bolt cantrip. Hellish Rebuke Darkness ©2022 Wizards of the Coast LLC 11 customize it with the rules in the “Build Your Background” section. No matter which Background you choose, consider these questions from your character’s viewpoint: • How does your Background influence your current worldview? • Do you embrace or reject your Background? • Did you form any relationships during your Background that endure today? BUILD YOUR BACKGROUND Using the rules here, you can build a Background from scratch or customize a premade Background, focusing on details related to the backstory you have in mind for your character. When you build a Background, your character gains the features in the “Background Features” section below. As you make choices for those features, think about your character’s past. Where did they spend most of their time? What did they do for a living? What capabilities and possessions did they acquire? What language did they learn from their family, associates, or studies? How did their past affect their ability scores? If you instead decide to customize a premade Background, you can choose any features in that Background and replace them with the features below of the same name. For example, if you want to change a Background’s Language feature, you can replace that feature with the Language feature below. Background Features Ability Scores. When you determine your character’s ability scores, choose two of them, and increase one by 2 and the other one by 1. Alternatively, choose three ability scores, and increase each of them by 1. Skill Proficiencies. Choose two Skills. Your character gains Proficiency in them. Tool Proficiency. Choose one tool. Your character gains Tool Proficiency* with it. Language. Choose one language from the Standard Languages and Rare Languages tables (these appear later in the document). Your character knows that language. Feat. Choose one 1st-level Feat. Your character gains that Feat. Equipment. Your character gains 50 GP to spend on starting equipment. The character keeps any unspent GP as spare coin. ABILITY SCORE INCREASES FROM ELSEWHERE Since 2014, characters have received ability score increases from several sources, either from a Race that has the Ability Score Increase trait or from the ability score rules in Tasha’s Cauldron of Everything, Monsters of the Multiverse, and other books. If you make a character using one of those older sources and get ability score increases from it, the character doesn’t also get ability score increases from Background, unless you forgo the older ability score increases to gain the increases from the Background rules here. SAMPLE BACKGROUNDS Here is a collection of sample Backgrounds that you can choose from when making a character. These Backgrounds were built using the rules in the “Build Your Background” section, and each of them contains story-oriented details that are meant inspire you as you think of your character’s backstory. The Feats mentioned in the Backgrounds appear later in this document. ACOLYTE Ability Scores: +2 Wisdom, +1 Intelligence Skill Proficiencies: Insight, Religion Tool Proficiency: Calligrapher’s Supplies Language: Celestial Feat: Magic Initiate (Divine) You devoted yourself to service in a temple, either nestled in a town or secluded in a sacred grove. There you performed hallowed rites in honor of a god or pantheon. You served under a priest and studied religion. Thanks to your priest’s instruction and your own devotion, you also learned how to channel a modicum of divine power in service to your place of worship and the people who prayed there. Equipment Book (Prayers) Calligrapher’s Supplies Holy Symbol Parchment (10 sheets) Robe 3 GP ©2022 Wizards of the Coast LLC 12 ARTISAN Ability Scores: +2 Intelligence, +1 Charisma Skill Proficiencies: Investigation, Persuasion Tool Proficiency: Artisan’s Tools* (one of your choice) Language: Gnomish Feat: Crafter You began mopping floors and scrubbing counters in an artisan’s workshop for a few coppers per day as soon as you were strong enough to carry a bucket. When you were finally old enough to apprentice, you learned to create basic crafts of your own, as well as how to sweet-talk the occasional demanding customer. As part of your studies, you picked up Gnomish, the tongue from which so many of the artisan’s terms of art are derived. Equipment Abacus Artisan’s Tools (same as above) Merchant’s Scale Pouch (2) Traveler’s Clothes 25 GP CHARLATAN Ability Scores: +2 Charisma, +1 Dexterity Skill Proficiencies: Deception, Sleight of Hand Tool Proficiency: Forgery Kit Language: Infernal Feat: Skilled Soon after you were old enough to order an ale, you already had a favorite stool in every tavern within ten miles of where you were born. As you traveled the circuit from public house to watering hole, you learned to prey on the unfortunates who were in the market for a comforting lie or two—perhaps a sham potion or a forged “treasure map.” You are fluent in Infernal, the ancient language of deception. Equipment Costume Fine Clothes Forgery Kit 15 GP CRIMINAL Ability Scores: +2 Dexterity, +1 Intelligence Skill Proficiencies: Sleight of Hand, Stealth Tool Proficiency: Thieves’ Tools Language: Thieves’ Cant Feat: Alert You learned to earn your coin in dark alleyways, cutting purses or burgling shops. Perhaps you were part of a small gang of like-minded wrongdoers, who looked out for each other. Or maybe you were a lone wolf, fending for yourself against the local thieves’ guild and older, more fearsome lawbreakers. Equipment Crowbar Dagger (2) Pouch (2) Thieves’ Tools Traveler’s Clothes 16 GP CULTIST Ability Scores: +2 Intelligence, +1 Charisma Skill Proficiencies: Arcana, Religion Tool Proficiency: Disguise Kit Language: Abyssal Feat: Magic Initiate (Arcane) You scarcely recall what drove you into the service of the otherworldly being. Those memories were blotted out long ago by recurrent dreams of midnight gatherings round the obsidian pillar in the glade. By the light of each waning moon, the hierophants instructed you in the being’s creed and the rudiments of the arcane arts. When you came of age, you were ordered to blend in among the nonbelievers and await whatever mission the Great One has in store for you. Equipment Bell Common Clothes Dagger Disguise Kit Lamp Robe 19 GP ENTERTAINER Ability Scores: +2 Charisma, +1 Dexterity Skill Proficiencies: Acrobatics, Performance Tool Proficiency: Musical Instrument* (one of your choice) Language: Elvish Feat: Musician You spent much of your youth following roving fairs and carnivals, performing odd jobs for musicians and acrobats in exchange for lessons. ©2022 Wizards of the Coast LLC 13 You may have learned how to walk a tightrope, how to double pick a lute, or how to recite Elvish poetry with the impeccable trills of an elf poet. To this day, you thrive on applause and long for the stage. Equipment Costume (2) Musical Instrument (same as above) Perfume Steel Mirror Traveler’s Clothes 8 GP FARMER Ability Scores: +2 Constitution, +1 Wisdom Skill Proficiencies: Animal Handling, Nature Tool Proficiency: Carpenter’s Tools Language: Halfling Feat: Tough You grew up close to the land. Years tending animals and cultivating the earth rewarded you with patience and good health. You have a keen appreciation for nature’s bounty alongside a healthy respect for nature’s wrath. Like many farmers, you made frequent use of the agricultural almanacs produced by the greatest halfling farmers. Equipment Carpenter’s Tools Healer’s Kit Iron Pot Shovel Sickle Traveler’s Clothes 23 GP GLADIATOR Ability Scores: +2 Strength, +1 Charisma Skill Proficiencies: Athletics, Performance Tool Proficiency: Smith’s Tools Language: Orc Feat: Savage Attacker Your first few appearances in the gladiatorial pits led you to appreciate every one of the scars you carry from your instructors and sparring partners. Each scar was a lesson that taught you how to best your opponents and curry favor with the crowds your brawls entertained. Your time in the pits left you with a strong hand and a strong heart. You’ll forever share a remarkable bond with the other pit fighters in your stable—humans, dragonborn, dwarves, and orcs—hardened warriors all. Equipment Chain Costume Healer’s Kit Javelin (6) Smith’s Tools Traveler’s Clothes 15 GP GUARD Ability Scores: +2 Strength, +1 Wisdom Skill Proficiencies: Athletics, Perception Tool Proficiency: Gaming Set* (one of your choice) Language: Dwarvish Feat: Alert Your feet begin to ache when you remember the countless hours you spent at your post in the tower. You were trained to keep one eye outside the wall, watching for marauders sweeping from the nearby forest, and your other eye inside the wall, searching for cutpurses and troublemakers. At the end of each shift, you bunked in the mayor’s barracks alongside your fellow sentries and the dwarven smiths who kept your armor snug and your weapons sharp. Equipment Crossbow Bolt (20) Gaming Set (same as above) Hooded Lantern Light Crossbow Manacles Quiver Spear Traveler’s Clothes 12 GP GUIDE Ability Scores: +2 Wisdom, +1 Dexterity Skill Proficiencies: Stealth, Survival Tool Proficiency: Cartographer’s Tools Language: Giant Feat: Magic Initiate (Primal) You came of age in the outdoors, far from settled lands. Your home? Anywhere you chose to unfurl your bedroll. There are wonders on the frontier—strange monsters, pristine forests and streams, overgrown ruins of great halls once trod by giants—and you learned to fend for yourself as you explored them. From time to time, you traveled with a pair of friendly druids who were kind enough to instruct you in the fundamentals of channeling the magic of the wild. ©2022 Wizards of the Coast LLC 14 Equipment Arrow (20) Bedroll Cartographer’s Tools Fishing Tackle Quiver Shortbow Tent Traveler’s Clothes 2 GP HERMIT Ability Scores: +2 Wisdom, +1 Constitution Skill Proficiencies: Medicine, Religion Tool Proficiency: Herbalism Kit Language: Sylvan Feat: Magic Initiate (Primal) You spent your early years secluded in a hut or monastery located well beyond the outskirts of the nearest settlement. In those days, your only companions were the creatures of the forest, who would occasionally visit to bring news of the outside world and supplies. The quiet and solitude you found in your time outside society allowed you to spend many hours pondering the mysteries of creation, attuning your mind to the magical energy flowing through the natural world. Equipment Bedroll Book (Philosophy) Fishing Tackle Herbalism Kit Lamp Oil (3 flasks) Quarterstaff Traveler’s Clothes 15 GP LABORER Ability Scores: +2 Constitution, +1 Strength Skill Proficiencies: Athletics, Survival Tool Proficiency: Mason’s Tools Language: Dwarvish Feat: Tough Your apprenticeship consumed the better part of your youth. First, you learned to cut and polish a stone. After several years of polishing stones, you learned how to cement those stones into a wall. After several years building walls, you learned to join your walls to form a structure. The structures you built were exceptionally durable. The masons who taught you were taught by even older masons who were taught by dwarf artisans of old. Equipment Bullseye Lantern Common Clothes Handaxe Light Hammer Mason’s Tools Mess Kit Oil (1 flask) Shovel Waterskin 15 GP NOBLE Ability Scores: +2 Charisma, +1 Intelligence Skill Proficiencies: History, Persuasion Tool Proficiency: Gaming Set* (one of your choice) Language: Draconic Feat: Skilled You were raised in a castle as a creature of wealth, power, and privilege—none of it earned. Your family are minor aristocrats who saw to it that you received a first-class education, some of which you appreciated and some of which you resented. (Was it truly necessary to read all those ancient histories in their original Draconic?) Your time in the castle, especially the many hours you spent observing your family at court, also taught you a great deal about leadership. Equipment Fine Clothes Gaming Set Perfume Signet Ring 24 GP PILGRIM Ability Scores: +2 Wisdom, +1 Constitution Skill Proficiencies: Religion, Survival Tool Proficiency: Musical Instrument* (one of your choice) Language: Halfling Feat: Healer You and a group of like-minded believers—mostly humans and halflings—once endeavored to walk a thousand miles of road to reach a faraway shrine. Priests counseled at the outset that, long after your journey was complete, you’d come to realize that you found the key to your salvation not at your destination, but somewhere along the road that led there. ©2022 Wizards of the Coast LLC 15 Equipment Bedroll Healer’s Kit Holy Symbol Musical Instrument Rations (2 days) Traveler’s Clothes 16 GP SAGE Ability Scores: +2 Intelligence, +1 Wisdom Skill Proficiencies: Arcana, History Tool Proficiency: Calligrapher’s Supplies Language: Elvish Feat: Magic Initiate (Arcane) You spent your formative years traveling between manors and monasteries, performing various odd jobs and services in exchange for access to their libraries. You wiled away many a long evening with your nose buried in books and scrolls, learning the lore of the multiverse—even the rudiments of magic—and your mind only yearns for more. Equipment Book (History) Calligrapher’s Supplies Parchment (8 sheets) Quarterstaff Robe 8 GP SAILOR Ability Scores: +2 Dexterity, +1 Wisdom Skill Proficiencies: Acrobatics, Perception Tool Proficiency: Navigator’s Tools Language: Primordial Feat: Tavern Brawler Thus far, you’ve spent most of your days living the life of a seafarer, wind at your back and decks swaying beneath your feet, as you sailed toward your next adventure. You’ve perched on barstools in more ports of call than you can remember, faced down mighty storms, and swapped stories with the folk who live beneath the waves. Equipment Dagger Fishing Tackle Navigator’s Tools Silk Rope Traveler’s Clothes 10 GP SOLDIER Ability Scores: +2 Strength, +1 Constitution Skill Proficiencies: Athletics, Intimidation Tool Proficiency: Gaming Set* (one of your choice) Language: Goblin Feat: Savage Attacker You began training for war at such an early age that you carry only a precious few memories of what life was like before you took up arms. Battle is in your blood. Sometimes you catch yourself reflexively performing the basic fighting exercises you learned as a youth. Eventually, you put that training to use on the battlefield, protecting the realm by waging war and studying the strategies of goblinoid generals. Equipment Arrow (20) Gaming Set (same as above) Healer’s Kit Quiver Shortbow Spear Traveler’s Clothes 14 GP URCHIN Ability Scores: +2 Dexterity, +1 Wisdom Skill Proficiencies: Insight, Stealth Tool Proficiency: Thieves’ Tools Language: Common Sign Language Feat: Lucky You grew up on the streets, surrounded by similarly ill-fated castoffs, a few of them friends and a few of them rivals. You slept where you could and did odd jobs for food. At times, when the hunger became unbearable, you resorted to theft. Still, you never lost your pride and never abandoned hope. Fate is not yet finished with you. Equipment Bedroll Common Clothes Dagger (2) Gaming Set Pouch Thieves’ Tools 18 GP STARTING LANGUAGES Your character begins play knowing at least three languages: Common, a language provided by the character’s Background, and a language that you choose from the Standard Languages table below. Knowledge of a language means ©2022 Wizards of the Coast LLC 16 your character can communicate in that language and can read and write it. The Standard Languages table lists languages that are widespread on D&D worlds in the Material Plane, and the Rare Languages table lists languages that are more rarely known on those worlds. In each table, typical users of a language are mentioned. STANDARD LANGUAGES Language Typical Users Common Anyone Common Sign Language Anyone Dwarvish Dwarves Elvish Elves Giant Giants Gnomish Gnomes Goblin Goblinoids Halfling Halflings Orc Orcs RARE LANGUAGES Language Typical Users Abyssal Demons Celestial Celestials Deep Speech Aberrations Draconic Dragons Druidic Druids Infernal Devils Primordial (includes the Aquan, Auran, Ignan, and Terran dialects) Elementals Sylvan Fey Thieves’ Cant Rogues Undercommon Underdark folk FEATS This section offers a collection of 1st-level Feats, which are special features not tied to a single Class. At 1st level, your character gains a Feat from the character’s Background. PARTS OF A FEAT The description of a Feat contains the following parts, which are presented after the Feat’s name: Level. Each Feat has a level. To take a Feat, your level must equal or exceed the Feat’s level. Prerequisite. You must meet any prerequisite specified in a Feat to take that Feat. If you lose a Feat’s prerequisite, you can’t use that Feat until you regain the prerequisite. Repeatable. If a Feat is repeatable, you can take it more than once. If it isn’t repeatable, you can take the Feat only once. FEAT DESCRIPTIONS Here are the descriptions of Feats mentioned in this document’s Backgrounds. The Feats are presented in alphabetical order. ALERT 1st-Level Feat Prerequisite: None Repeatable: No Always on the lookout for danger, you gain the following benefits: Initiative Proficiency. When you roll Initiative, you can add your Proficiency Bonus to the roll. Initiative Swap. Immediately after you roll Initiative, you can swap your Initiative with the Initiative of one willing ally in the same combat. You can’t make this swap if you or the ally is Incapacitated.* CRAFTER 1st-Level Feat Prerequisite: None Repeatable: No You are adept at crafting things and bargaining with merchants, granting you the following benefits: Tool Proficiency. You gain Tool Proficiency* with three different Artisan’s Tools* of your choice. Discount. Whenever you buy a nonmagical item, you receive a 20 percent discount on it. Faster Crafting. When you craft an item using a tool with which you have Tool Proficiency, the required crafting time is reduced by 20 percent. HEALER 1st-Level Feat Prerequisite: None Repeatable: No ©2022 Wizards of the Coast LLC 17 You have the training and intuition to administer first aid and other care effectively, granting you the following benefits: Battle Medic. If you have a Healer’s Kit, you can expend one use of it and tend to a creature within 5 feet of you as an Action. That creature can expend one of its Hit Dice, and you then roll that die. The creature regains a number of Hit Points equal to the roll plus your Proficiency Bonus. Healing Rerolls. Whenever you roll a die to determine the number of Hit Points you restore with a spell or with this feat’s Battle Medic benefit, you can reroll the die if it rolls a 1, and you must use the new roll. LUCKY 1st-Level Feat Prerequisite: None Repeatable: No You have inexplicable luck that can kick in at just the right moment, granting you the following benefits: Luck Points. You have a number of Luck Points equal to your Proficiency Bonus. You can spend the points on the benefits below, and you regain your expended Luck Points when you finish a Long Rest.* Advantage. Immediately after you roll a d20 for a d20 Test,* you can spend 1 Luck Point to give yourself Advantage on the roll. Disadvantage. When a creature rolls a d20 for an attack roll against you, you can spend 1 Luck Point to impose Disadvantage on that roll. MAGIC INITIATE 1st-Level Feat Prerequisite: None Repeatable: Yes, but you must choose a different Spell list each time You have learned the basics of a particular magical tradition. Choose one Spell list: Arcane,* Divine,* or Primal.* You gain the following benefits related to that choice: Two Cantrips. You learn two cantrips of your choice from the Spell list. 1st-Level Spell. Choose one 1st-level Spell from the Spell list. You always have that Spell prepared. You can cast it once without a Spell Slot, and you regain the ability to cast it in that way when you finish a Long Rest.* You can also cast the Spell using any Spell Slots you have. Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma is your spellcasting ability for these Spells (choose when you select this Feat). Consult the Player’s Handbook for the rules on spellcasting. Whenever you gain a new level, you can replace one of the Spells you chose for this Feat with a different Spell of the same level from the chosen Spell list. MUSICIAN 1st-Level Feat Prerequisite: None Repeatable: No You are a practiced musician, granting you the following benefits: Instrument Training. You gain Tool Proficiency* with three Musical Instruments* of your choice. Inspiring Song. As you finish a Short Rest or a Long Rest, you can play a song on a Musical Instrument with which you have Tool Proficiency and give Inspiration* to allies who hear the song. The number of allies you can affect in this way equals your Proficiency Bonus. SAVAGE ATTACKER 1st-Level Feat Prerequisite: None Repeatable: No You have trained to deal particularly damaging strikes. When you take the Attack Action and hit a target with a Weapon as part of that Action, you can roll the Weapon’s damage dice twice and use either roll against the target. You can use this benefit only once per turn. SKILLED 1st-Level Feat Prerequisite: None Repeatable: Yes ©2022 Wizards of the Coast LLC 18 You have exceptionally broad learning. Choose three Skills in which you lack Proficiency. You gain Proficiency in those Skills. TAVERN BRAWLER 1st-Level Feat Prerequisite: None Repeatable: No Accustomed to brawling, you gain the following benefits: Enhanced Unarmed Strike. When you hit with your Unarmed Strike* and deal damage, you can deal Bludgeoning Damage equal to 1d4 + your Strength modifier, instead of the normal damage of an Unarmed Strike. Damage Rerolls. Whenever you roll a damage die for your Unarmed Strike, you can reroll the die if it rolls a 1, and you must use the new roll. Shove. When you hit a creature with an Unarmed Strike as part of the Attack Action on your turn, you can deal damage to the target and also push it 5 feet away. You can use this benefit only once per turn. Furniture as Weapons. You can wield furniture as a Weapon, using the rules of the Greatclub for Small or Medium furniture and the rules of the Club for Tiny furniture. TOUGH 1st-Level Feat Prerequisite: None Repeatable: No Your Hit Point Maximum increases by an amount equal to twice your character level when you gain this Feat. Whenever you gain a level thereafter, your Hit Point Maximum increases by an additional 2 Hit Points. RULES GLOSSARY This glossary includes game terms that have new or revised meaning in these playtest rules, as well as terms, such as Creature Type, that aren’t defined in the 2014 Player’s Handbook. The terms are organized alphabetically. If a term doesn’t appear here, use its definition in the 2014 Player’s Handbook. ARCANE SPELLS An Arcane Spell draws on the ambient magic of the multiverse. Bards, Sorcerers, Warlocks, and Wizards harness this magic, as do Artificers. For a partial list of Arcane Spells, see the “Spell Lists” section later in this document. ARTISAN’S TOOLS Artisan’s Tools are a category of tool with which a character can gain Tool Proficiency. For a list of Artisan’s Tools, see the 2014 Player’s Handbook, but ignore the prices there; those tools now cost 15 GP apiece. CREATURE TYPE Every creature in D&D, including every player character, has a special tag in the rules that identifies the type of creature they are. Most player characters are of the Humanoid type. Here’s a list of the game’s Creature Types in alphabetical order: Aberration Beast Celestial Construct Dragon Elemental Fey Fiend Giant Humanoid Monstrosity Ooze Plant Undead These types don’t have rules themselves, but some rules in the game affect creatures of certain types in different ways. For example, the description of Cure Wounds specifies that the Spell doesn’t benefit a Construct. D20 TEST The term d20 Test encompasses the three main d20 rolls of the game: ability checks, attack rolls, and saving throws. If something in the game affects d20 Tests, it affects all three of those rolls. The DM determines whether a d20 Test is warranted in any given circumstance. To be warranted, a d20 Test must have a target number no less than 5 and no greater than 30. ROLLING A 1 If you roll a 1 on the d20, the d20 Test automatically fails, regardless of any modifiers to the roll. ©2022 Wizards of the Coast LLC 19 ROLLING A 20 If you roll a 20 on the d20, the d20 Test automatically succeeds, regardless of any modifiers to the roll. A player character also gains Inspiration when rolling the 20, thanks to the remarkable success. Rolling a 20 doesn’t bypass limitations on the test, such as range and line of sight. The 20 bypasses only bonuses and penalties to the roll. CRITICAL HITS Weapons and Unarmed Strikes* have a special feature for player characters: Critical Hits. If a player character rolls a 20 for an attack roll with a Weapon or an Unarmed Strike, the attack is also a Critical Hit, which means it deals extra damage to the target; you roll the damage dice of the Weapon or Unarmed Strike a second time and add the second roll as extra damage to the target. For example, a Mace deals Bludgeoning Damage equal to 1d6 + your Strength modifier. If you score a Critical Hit with the Mace, it instead deals 2d6 + your Strength modifier. If your Weapon or Unarmed Strike has no damage dice, it deals no extra damage on a Critical Hit. DIVINE SPELLS A Divine Spell draws on the power of gods and the Outer Planes. Clerics and Paladins harness this magic. For a partial list of Divine Spells, see the “Spell Lists” section later in this document. GAMING SET Gaming Sets are a category of tool with which a character can gain Tool Proficiency. For a list of Gaming Sets, see the 2014 Player’s Handbook, but ignore the prices there; those sets now cost 1 GP apiece. GRAPPLED [CONDITION] While you are Grappled, you experience the following effects: Speed 0. Your Speed is 0 and can’t change. Attacks Affected. You have Disadvantage on attack rolls against any target other than the grappler. Movable. The grappler can drag or carry you, but the grappler suffers the Slowed Condition while moving, unless you are Tiny or two or more Sizes smaller than the grappler. Escape. While Grappled, you can make a Dexterity or Strength saving throw against the grapple’s escape DC at the end of each of your turns, ending the Condition on yourself on a success. The Condition also ends if the grappler is Incapacitated or if something moves you outside the grapple’s range without using your Speed. INCAPACITATED [CONDITION] While you are Incapacitated, you experience the following effects: Inactive. You can’t take Actions or Reactions. No Concentration. Your Concentration is broken. Speechless. You can’t speak. Surprised. If you are Incapacitated when you roll Initiative, you have Disadvantage on the roll. INSPIRATION When you have Inspiration, you can expend it to give yourself Advantage on a d20 Test. You must decide to do so before rolling the die. GAINING INSPIRATION The main way a character gains Inspiration is by rolling a 20 for a d20 Test. The DM can also award Inspiration to a character who’s done something that is particularly heroic or amusing. ONLY ONE AT A TIME You can never have more than one instance of Inspiration. If something gives you Inspiration and you already have it, you can give Inspiration to a player character in your group who lacks it. LOSING INSPIRATION If you still have Inspiration when you start a Long Rest, you lose that Inspiration. LONG REST A Long Rest is a period of extended downtime—at least 8 hours long—during which a creature sleeps for at least 6 hours and performs no ©2022 Wizards of the Coast LLC 20 more than 2 hours of light activity, such as reading, talking, eating, or standing watch. BENEFITS OF THE REST At the end of a Long Rest, a creature regains all lost Hit Points. The creature also regains spent Hit Dice, up to half of the creature’s total number of them (round down; minimum of one die). A creature can’t benefit from more than one Long Rest in a 24-hour period, and a creature must have at least 1 Hit Point at the start of the rest to gain its benefits. INTERRUPTING THE REST If a Long Rest is interrupted by combat or by 1 hour of walking, casting Spells, or similar activity, the rest confers no benefit and must be restarted; however, if the rest was at least 1 hour long before the interruption, the creature gains the benefits of a Short Rest. MUSICAL INSTRUMENT Musical Instruments are a category of tool with which a character can gain Tool Proficiency. For a list of Musical Instruments, see the 2014 Player’s Handbook, but ignore the prices there; those instruments now cost 20 GP apiece. PRIMAL SPELLS A Primal Spell draws on the forces of nature and the Inner Planes. Druids and Rangers harness this magic. For a partial list of Primal Spells, see the “Spell Lists” section later in this document. SLOWED [CONDITION] While you are Slowed, you experience the following effects: Limited Movement. You must spend 1 extra foot of movement for every foot you move using your Speed. Attacks Affected. Attack rolls against you have Advantage. Dexterity Saves Affected. You have Disadvantage on Dexterity saving throws. TOOL PROFICIENCY If you have Proficiency with a tool, you can add your Proficiency Bonus to any ability check you make that uses that tool. If you have Proficiency in the Skill that’s also used with that check, you have Advantage on the check too. This functionality means you can benefit from both Skill Proficiency and Tool Proficiency on the same ability check. TREMORSENSE A creature with Tremorsense can pinpoint the location of creatures and moving objects within a specific range, provided that the creature with Tremorsense and anything it’s detecting are both in contact with the same surface (such as the ground, a wall, or a ceiling) or the same liquid. Tremorsense can’t detect creatures or objects in the air, and Tremorsense doesn’t count as a form of sight. UNARMED STRIKE An Unarmed Strike is a melee attack that involves you using your body to damage, grapple, or shove a target within your Reach. Your bonus to hit with an Unarmed Strike equals your Strength modifier plus your Proficiency Bonus. On a hit, your Unarmed Strike causes one of the following effects of your choice: Damage. The target takes Bludgeoning Damage equal to 1 + your Strength modifier. Grapple. The target is Grappled, and the grapple’s escape DC equals 8 + your Strength modifier + your Proficiency Bonus. This grapple is possible only if the target is no more than one Size larger than you and if you have a hand free to grab the target. Shove. You either push the target 5 feet away or knock the target Prone. This shove is possible only if the target is no more than one Size larger than you. SPELL LISTS There are now three main Spell lists in the game: Arcane, Divine, and Primal. In future Unearthed Arcana articles, we’ll show how Classes use these lists and how a Class or Subclass might gain Spells from another list. The lists here go through 1st level to support some of the Races and Feats in this document. The lists currently include Spells only from the 2014 Player’s Handbook. ©2022 Wizards of the Coast LLC 21 ARCANE SPELLS 0-Level Spells (Cantrips) Acid Splash Blade Ward Chill Touch Dancing Lights Fire Bolt Friends Light Mage Hand Mending Message Minor Illusion Poison Spray Prestidigitation Ray of Frost Shocking Grasp True Strike Vicious Mockery 1st-Level Spells Alarm Armor of Agathys Arms of Hadar Burning Hands Charm Person Chromatic Orb Color Spray Comprehend Languages Detect Magic Disguise Self Dissonant Whispers Expeditious Retreat False Life Feather Fall Find Familiar Fog Cloud Grease Hellish Rebuke Hex Identify Illusory Script Jump Longstrider Mage Armor Magic Missile Protection from Evil and Good Ray of Sickness Shield Silent Image Sleep Tasha’s Hideous Laughter Tenser’s Floating Disk Thunderwave Unseen Servant Witch Bolt DIVINE SPELLS 0-Level Spells (Cantrips) Guidance Light Resistance Sacred Flame Spare the Dying Thaumaturgy 1st-Level Spells Bane Bless Command Compelled Duel Cure Wounds Detect Evil and Good Detect Magic Detect Poison and Disease Divine Favor Guiding Bolt Healing Word Heroism Inflict Wounds Protection from Evil and Good Purify Food and Drink Sanctuary Searing Smite Shield of Faith Thunderous Smite Wrathful Smite PRIMAL SPELLS 0-Level Spells (Cantrips) Druidcraft Guidance Mending Message Poison Spray Produce Flame Resistance Shillelagh Spare the Dying Thorn Whip 1st-Level Spells Animal Friendship Create or Destroy Water Cure Wounds Detect Magic Detect Poison and Disease Ensnaring Strike Entangle Faerie Fire Fog Cloud Goodberry Hail of Thorns Healing Word Hunter’s Mark Jump Longstrider Purify Food and Drink Speak with Animals Thunderwave