Source: https://ayonarup5005.wordpress.com/
Title: Campus & Hall life
Words: 2505

================================================================================

Slideshow of Curzon Hall, University of Dhaka The Curzon Hall is a British Raj-era building and home of the Faculty of Sciences at the University of Dhaka.[1] The building was originally intended to be a town hall and is named after Lord Curzon, the Viceroy of India who laid its foundation stone in 1904.[1] Upon the establishment of Dacca University in 1921, it became the base of the university’s science faculty. During the Bengali Language Movement, 1948–1956, Curzon Hall was the location of various significant events. After the Partition of India in 1947 that formed the country of Pakistan, Urdu was chosen to be the sole state language. In 1948, the Constituent Assembly of Pakistan chose Urdu and English as the only languages to be used to address the assembly, which was protested within the assembly on the grounds that the majority of the people spoke Bangla and not Urdu. Students of Dhaka University objected instantly to the actions of the Constituent Assembly, and it was in Curzon Hall that they declared their opposition to the state language policy. The Botanical Garden of the university is located on the premises of Curzon Hall, and is used by students and faculty for teaching botany and for scientific studies with plants. Architecture of the structure One of the best examples of Dhaka’s architecture, it is a happy blend of European and Mughal elements, particularly noticeable in the projecting facade in the north which has both horse-shoe and cusped arches. Madhur Canteen (Bengali: মধুর রেস্তোরা, romanized: Modhur restora, lit. ‘Madhu’s canteen’) is a familiar name in the history of the Dhaka University as well as in the national politics of Bangladesh because of its association with various political movements which originated from the Dhaka University. The canteen’s current location holds important architectural and heritage value. Madhusudan Dey (Modhu), the canteen’s founder, is an equally important figure in the socio-political history of the region. He was killed on 25 March 1971 at the beginning of the Bangladesh Liberation War. As part of Operation Searchlight, the Pakistan Army attacked the Dhaka University. Madhusudan Dey was taken to Jagannath Hall by the Pakistani armed forces where he was executed along with many university students. After the Liberation War, Arun Kumar Dey assumed the responsibility of running the canteen.[1] Years after Modhu’s death, the canteen remains a significant landmark and also a place for gathering in the community.[2] History of the canteen Origin Madhur Canteen was started in 1921, when Madhusudan Dey (Modhu) came to Dhaka with his father, Aditya Chandra, at the age of 15. Aditya Chandra, with the permission of the university authorities, began selling food in the Dhaka University Campus which was, at the time, located in the present Dhaka Medical College building. The canteen was shifted later when the Arts Faculty of the university was shifted to a new building at Nilkhet. Madhur canteen played a pivotal role in the Bangladesh Liberation Movement. It was the focal point for the start of various political movements in the country. The canteen played a significant part in the Language Movements of 1948 and 1952, the movement of fourth-class Dhaka University employees in 1949, the student’s revolt against the black laws (kala kanoon) of the university, and the 1969 mass uprising in East Pakistan. During these critical political moments, Madhur Canteen was a social epicentre frequented by student leaders and activists. The Pakistani army targeted Madhur Canteen on 25 March 1971, with the beginning of operation Searchlight.[3] Massacre Madhusudan Dey was killed on 26 March 1971. The Pakistani military stormed his house and started firing in the early morning hours. Dey’s wife, son and daughter-in-law were amongst those killed. Madhusudan Dey was injured in the firing, arrested and taken to the Jagannath Hall playground where he was killed alongside many students.[4] Present location The Jalsaghar buildings in 1904. Madhur Canteen was reconstructed after suffering severe damage during the liberation war. The canteen was relocated from its original location in the present-day Dhaka Medical college building to an old structure. The canteen’s present location served as the Durbar Hall of the Dhaka Nawabs. Apart from being used as a venue for formal and informal meetings, it also served as a skating rink and ballroom for the enjoyment of the Nawabs. Construction of the building began in 1873 which continued over several years.[5] In 1906, a conference was held in the building, sponsored by Nawab Khwaja Salimullah, the Nawab of Dhaka that led to the formation of the All-India Muslim League.[4] Toufiq Hosen Khan, a student of fine arts, engraved a statue of Madhusudan Dey in 1995, which remains in front of the Madhur Canteen to the present day.[6][1] Heaven of Dhaka University, Jagannath hall. Jagannath Hall of Dhaka University is a residence hall for minority students, Hindu, Buddhist, Christian, and others. It is one of the three original residence halls that date from when the university was founded in 1921, and like them is modelled on the colleges of the University of Oxford, a complex of buildings including residences, meeting rooms, dining rooms, a prayer hall, gardens, and sporting facilities. Of the approximately 2000 students of the hall, half live in the residences, and half are non-residential students affiliated with the college. Several professors at the university hold the positions of house tutors and provost at the hall.[1] The hall includes four residential buildings: Govinda Chandra Dev building Sontosh Chandra Bhattacharya Bhavan (New Building) October Memorial Building (October Smiriti Bhaban)[2] Jyotirmoy Guhathakurta building History October Smriti Bhawan (October Memorial Building) Kisorilal Roy Chowdhury, the Zamindar of Baliati in Saturia, Manikganj, who had previously established Jagannath College named after his father Jagannath Saha, also established this hall of University of Dhaka.[1] University of Dhaka was established in 1921 as a merger of the two institutes of higher learning that existed in the city at that time, Dhaka College, a government institution, and Jagannath College, which was privately funded.[3] With the Jagannath College Act of the Indian Legislative Council (Act No XVI of 1920), that college was renamed as Jagannath Intermediate College, and the second- and third-year students (303 in all) were transferred to University of Dhaka the following year, along with many teachers and equipment such as library books. Two residence halls at Dhaka University were then named after the contributing colleges: Jagannath Hall and Dhaka Hall (since renamed Dr Muhammad Shahidullah Hall). The first Provost of this hall was Professor Naresh Chandra Sengupta, who served from 1921 to 1924.[4] Other famous provosts include philosopher Govinda Chandra Dev (who served from 1957 to 1970) who was murdered by the occupying Pakistani army in 1971, along with the then current provost Professor Jyotirmoy Guhathakurta. 25 March 1971 Grave of the 1971 martyrs, in front of Jagannath Hall After midnight on 25 March 1971 the campaign of genocide against intellectuals by the Pakistani army took place in the Dhaka University area. Jagannath Hall could not be defended against this action, and many residential students and employees were killed on that night. Professor Jyotirmoy Guhathakura and Professor Govinda Chandra Dev, the former and current provosts, were also murdered at their apartments on Secretariat Road. 1985 Jagannath Hall tragedy On 15 October 1985, a tragic accident occurred when the roof of the ancient assembly building of Jagannath Hall collapsed. It killed 39 people, students, employees and guests. Since then the day is observed as a day of mourning for the university. In 1988 the building was reconstructed as a residential building, and named October Memorial Building. Slideshow of Curzon Hall, University of Dhaka The Curzon Hall is a British Raj-era building and home of the Faculty of Sciences at the University of Dhaka.[1] The building was originally intended to be a town hall and is named after Lord Curzon, the Viceroy of India who laid its foundation stone in 1904.[1] Upon the establishment of Dacca University in 1921, it became the base of the university’s science faculty. During the Bengali Language Movement, 1948–1956, Curzon Hall was the location of various significant events. After the Partition of India in 1947 that formed the country of Pakistan, Urdu was chosen to be the sole state language. In 1948, the Constituent Assembly of Pakistan chose Urdu and English as the only languages to be used to address the assembly, which was protested within the assembly on the grounds that the majority of the people spoke Bangla and not Urdu. Students of Dhaka University objected instantly to the actions of the Constituent Assembly, and it was in Curzon Hall that they declared their opposition to the state language policy. The Botanical Garden of the university is located on the premises of Curzon Hall, and is used by students and faculty for teaching botany and for scientific studies with plants. Architecture of the structure One of the best examples of Dhaka’s architecture, it is a happy blend of European and Mughal elements, particularly noticeable in the projecting facade in the north which has both horse-shoe and cusped arches. Madhur Canteen (Bengali: মধুর রেস্তোরা, romanized: Modhur restora, lit. ‘Madhu’s canteen’) is a familiar name in the history of the Dhaka University as well as in the national politics of Bangladesh because of its association with various political movements which originated from the Dhaka University. The canteen’s current location holds important architectural and heritage value. Madhusudan Dey (Modhu), the canteen’s founder, is an equally important figure in the socio-political history of the region. He was killed on 25 March 1971 at the beginning of the Bangladesh Liberation War. As part of Operation Searchlight, the Pakistan Army attacked the Dhaka University. Madhusudan Dey was taken to Jagannath Hall by the Pakistani armed forces where he was executed along with many university students. After the Liberation War, Arun Kumar Dey assumed the responsibility of running the canteen.[1] Years after Modhu’s death, the canteen remains a significant landmark and also a place for gathering in the community.[2] History of the canteen Madhur Canteen was started in 1921, when Madhusudan Dey (Modhu) came to Dhaka with his father, Aditya Chandra, at the age of 15. Aditya Chandra, with the permission of the university authorities, began selling food in the Dhaka University Campus which was, at the time, located in the present Dhaka Medical College building. The canteen was shifted later when the Arts Faculty of the university was shifted to a new building at Nilkhet. Madhur canteen played a pivotal role in the Bangladesh Liberation Movement. It was the focal point for the start of various political movements in the country. The canteen played a significant part in the Language Movements of 1948 and 1952, the movement of fourth-class Dhaka University employees in 1949, the student’s revolt against the black laws (kala kanoon) of the university, and the 1969 mass uprising in East Pakistan. During these critical political moments, Madhur Canteen was a social epicentre frequented by student leaders and activists. The Pakistani army targeted Madhur Canteen on 25 March 1971, with the beginning of operation Searchlight.[3] Madhusudan Dey was killed on 26 March 1971. The Pakistani military stormed his house and started firing in the early morning hours. Dey’s wife, son and daughter-in-law were amongst those killed. Madhusudan Dey was injured in the firing, arrested and taken to the Jagannath Hall playground where he was killed alongside many students.[4] Present location The Jalsaghar buildings in 1904. Madhur Canteen was reconstructed after suffering severe damage during the liberation war. The canteen was relocated from its original location in the present-day Dhaka Medical college building to an old structure. The canteen’s present location served as the Durbar Hall of the Dhaka Nawabs. Apart from being used as a venue for formal and informal meetings, it also served as a skating rink and ballroom for the enjoyment of the Nawabs. Construction of the building began in 1873 which continued over several years.[5] In 1906, a conference was held in the building, sponsored by Nawab Khwaja Salimullah, the Nawab of Dhaka that led to the formation of the All-India Muslim League.[4] Toufiq Hosen Khan, a student of fine arts, engraved a statue of Madhusudan Dey in 1995, which remains in front of the Madhur Canteen to the present day.[6][1] Heaven of Dhaka University, Jagannath hall. Jagannath Hall of Dhaka University is a residence hall for minority students, Hindu, Buddhist, Christian, and others. It is one of the three original residence halls that date from when the university was founded in 1921, and like them is modelled on the colleges of the University of Oxford, a complex of buildings including residences, meeting rooms, dining rooms, a prayer hall, gardens, and sporting facilities. Of the approximately 2000 students of the hall, half live in the residences, and half are non-residential students affiliated with the college. Several professors at the university hold the positions of house tutors and provost at the hall.[1] The hall includes four residential buildings: Govinda Chandra Dev building Sontosh Chandra Bhattacharya Bhavan (New Building) October Memorial Building (October Smiriti Bhaban)[2] Jyotirmoy Guhathakurta building October Smriti Bhawan (October Memorial Building) Kisorilal Roy Chowdhury, the Zamindar of Baliati in Saturia, Manikganj, who had previously established Jagannath College named after his father Jagannath Saha, also established this hall of University of Dhaka.[1] University of Dhaka was established in 1921 as a merger of the two institutes of higher learning that existed in the city at that time, Dhaka College, a government institution, and Jagannath College, which was privately funded.[3] With the Jagannath College Act of the Indian Legislative Council (Act No XVI of 1920), that college was renamed as Jagannath Intermediate College, and the second- and third-year students (303 in all) were transferred to University of Dhaka the following year, along with many teachers and equipment such as library books. Two residence halls at Dhaka University were then named after the contributing colleges: Jagannath Hall and Dhaka Hall (since renamed Dr Muhammad Shahidullah Hall). The first Provost of this hall was Professor Naresh Chandra Sengupta, who served from 1921 to 1924.[4] Other famous provosts include philosopher Govinda Chandra Dev (who served from 1957 to 1970) who was murdered by the occupying Pakistani army in 1971, along with the then current provost Professor Jyotirmoy Guhathakurta. 25 March 1971 Grave of the 1971 martyrs, in front of Jagannath Hall After midnight on 25 March 1971 the campaign of genocide against intellectuals by the Pakistani army took place in the Dhaka University area. Jagannath Hall could not be defended against this action, and many residential students and employees were killed on that night. Professor Jyotirmoy Guhathakura and Professor Govinda Chandra Dev, the former and current provosts, were also murdered at their apartments on Secretariat Road. 1985 Jagannath Hall tragedy On 15 October 1985, a tragic accident occurred when the roof of the ancient assembly building of Jagannath Hall collapsed. It killed 39 people, students, employees and guests. Since then the day is observed as a day of mourning for the university. In 1988 the building was reconstructed as a residential building, and named October Memorial Building.