Source: https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omar-abdullah-detained-under-psa-due-to-past-conduct-j-k-govt-tells-supreme-court/story-8tLhtDHlLTtSGlb8tBKaqJ.html
Title: ‘He disturbed peace’ : J-K govt defends PSA against Omar Abdullah | Latest News India
Words: 7445

================================================================================

Home India vs Oman Live Asia Cup 2025 DUSU Election Result Live E-Paper HT Premium HT The Next Voice US News Games HTCity Ht100 India World Entertainment Astrology Real Estate Trending Lifestyle Education Business Cities Latest News Car and Bike Asia Cup Schedule Asia Cup Points Table Asia Cup Most Run Asia Cup Most Wicket Livemint + 21 more US News Games HTCity ht100 India World Entertainment Astrology Real Estate Trending Lifestyle Education Business Cities Latest News Car and Bike Asia Cup Schedule Asia Cup Points Table Asia Cup Most Run Asia Cup Most Wicket Livemint Akshay Kumar Mahavatar Narsimha OTT Release Bihar Election Smart Money Photos Century of Leadership Web Stories Sports Bengaluru News Delhi News Mumbai News Technology Quickreads Daily Digest Following Bihar Chunav iPhone 17 Games + 12 more Web Stories Sports Bengaluru News Delhi News Mumbai News Technology Quickreads Daily Digest Following Bihar Chunav iPhone 17 Games Home India vs Oman Live Asia Cup 2025 DUSU Election Result Live E-Paper HT Premium HT The Next Voice US News Games HTCity Ht100 India World Entertainment Astrology Real Estate Trending Lifestyle Education Business Cities Latest News Car and Bike Asia Cup Schedule Asia Cup Points Table Asia Cup Most Run Asia Cup Most Wicket Livemint + 21 more US News Games HTCity ht100 India World Entertainment Astrology Real Estate Trending Lifestyle Education Business Cities Latest News Car and Bike Asia Cup Schedule Asia Cup Points Table Asia Cup Most Run Asia Cup Most Wicket Livemint Akshay Kumar Mahavatar Narsimha OTT Release Bihar Election Smart Money Photos Century of Leadership Web Stories Sports Bengaluru News Delhi News Mumbai News Technology Quickreads Daily Digest Following Bihar Chunav iPhone 17 Games + 12 more Web Stories Sports Bengaluru News Delhi News Mumbai News Technology Quickreads Daily Digest Following Bihar Chunav iPhone 17 Games India vs Oman Live Asia Cup 2025 DUSU Election Result Live HT The Next Voice Entertainment Real Estate Latest News Car and Bike Asia Cup Schedule Asia Cup Points Table Asia Cup Most Run Asia Cup Most Wicket + 21 more US News Games HTCity ht100 India World Entertainment Astrology Real Estate Trending Lifestyle Education Business Cities Latest News Car and Bike Asia Cup Schedule Asia Cup Points Table Asia Cup Most Run Asia Cup Most Wicket Livemint Entertainment Real Estate Latest News Car and Bike Asia Cup Schedule Asia Cup Points Table Asia Cup Most Run Asia Cup Most Wicket Akshay Kumar Mahavatar Narsimha OTT Release Bihar Election Smart Money Century of Leadership Web Stories Bengaluru News Mumbai News Daily Digest Bihar Chunav + 12 more Web Stories Sports Bengaluru News Delhi News Mumbai News Technology Quickreads Daily Digest Following Bihar Chunav iPhone 17 Games Web Stories Bengaluru News Mumbai News Daily Digest Bihar Chunav ‘He disturbed peace’ : J-K govt defends PSA against Omar Abdullah New Delhi | ByPress Trust of India Updated on: Mar 02, 2020 08:12 pm IST Share Via Copy Link Terming Abdullah as “a very vocal critic” of abrogating Article 370, the J&K administration claimed that his acts squarely fell within the realm of public order as it was “calculated to disturb public peace and tranquility”. Jammu and Kashmir administration informed the Supreme Court on Monday that National Conference leader Omar Abdullah has been detained under the Public Safety Act considering his “past conduct” and possibility of such conduct being repeated on his release, which may “prejudice the public order”. National Conference leader and former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Omar Abdullah was earlier placed under preventive detention by the Centre as per Section 107 of the CrPC right after the removal of Article 370.(Waseem Andrabi/ Hindustan Times) Terming Abdullah as “a very vocal critic” of abrogating Article 370, the J&K administration claimed that his acts squarely fell within the realm of public order as it was “calculated to disturb public peace and tranquility”. The District Magistrate of Srinagar has said this in his reply filed on a plea by Sara Abdullah Pilot, who has challenged the detention of her brother Omar Abdullah under the provision of the Jammu and Kashmir Public Safety Act (PSA). ALSO WATCH | Omar Abdullah’s sister moves Supreme Court against his detention under PSA The J&K administration has said that in the history of independent India the existence and continuance of Article 370 of the Constitution, which used to give special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, has “always remained a contentious and burning issue”. “The detenu has been a very vocal critic of any possible abrogation of Article 370 prior to its abrogation on August 5, 2019. It is submitted that considering the very peculiar geo-political position of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh and its geographical proximity with Islamic Republic of Pakistan, the concept of ‘public order’ needs to be examined contextually,” it said. It also said that Abdullah should have moved the Jammu and Kashmir High Court to avail his remedy before approaching the apex court. The matter came up for hearing on Monday before a bench of Justices Arun Mishra and Indira Banerjee. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for J&K administration, told the bench about the reply filed by the district magistrate. The bench, which posted the matter for hearing on March 5, said the petitioner can file rejoinder, if any, to it. In its reply, J&K administration has said that detention of Abdullah was ordered under section 8 of the PSA after being satisfied that it is necessary to detain him with a view “to prevent him from acting in any manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public order”. It also dealt with submissions advanced in Pilot’s plea which said that as Abdullah was already under detention since August 5 last year, there was no ground to come to a conclusion that he may act in a manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public order. “It is submitted that the said assertion is fallacious and ignores that the subjective satisfaction of the detaining authority, the grounds of detention and the dossier clearly indicate that there exists a live and proximate link in the events that occurred in the past, the activities of the detenu (Abdullah) and the possibility of such activities being prejudicial to maintenance of public order,” it said. “In light of the above, the deponent states and submits that there was ample material and grounds to issue the impugned order of detention against the detenu considering the past conduct and the possibility of such conduct being repeated on release and thereby prejudicing the public order in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir,” it said. The reply further said, “It may not be out of place to mention that so far since 1990, 41,866 persons have lost their lives in 71,038 incidents throughout the erstwhile state of J&K. This includes 14,038 civilians, 5,292 personnel of security forces and 22,536 terrorists.” It said that J&K High Court is seized of over 350 habeas corpus petitions and pleas challenging the detention orders. “It is further submitted that the high court is fully functional and has in fact quashed 68 detention orders since August 2019 while confirming 11 detention orders passed by the appropriate authority,” it said, adding that the petitioner has failed to disclose the reason for not approaching the high court first. “It is submitted that entertaining one petition would open flood gates of petitions which in absence of any special ground to make a departure, needs to be avoided,” it said. Seeking dismissal of the plea for “bypassing the effective alternative remedy” available under the PSA, the district magistrate said, “The detenue has chosen not to file a representation before the advisory board”. Grounds of detention were supplied to Abdullah to enable him to make an effective representation as stipulated in law, it said, adding that the advisory board had on February 24 observed that there was sufficient cause for his detention. “It is submitted that the acts, which are easily available in public domain, on the part of the detenu squarely fell within the realm of public order, as it was calculated to disturb public peace and tranquility. It is needless to emphasise that the incitement of the public at large, pertains to public order,” it said. It said the detention order is “not vague or without any material facts” and such order based on subjective satisfaction of detaining authority cannot be a matter of judicial review. “The deponent states and submits that invocation of jurisdiction of this court to issue high prerogative writ in the present case is unjustified and unwarranted in as much as the detention of the detenu was neither illegal nor unlawful as alleged in the petition,” it said. Pilot has approached the apex court claiming that the detention order was “manifestly illegal” and there was no question of him being a “threat to the maintenance of public order”. Omar Abdullah Public Safety Act Article 370 Supreme Court Get Latest real-time updates on India News, Weather Today, Latest News with including Bihar Chunav and DUSU Election Result Live on Hindustan Times. Get Latest real-time updates on India News, Weather Today, Latest News with including Bihar Chunav and DUSU Election Result Live on Hindustan Times. News / India News / ‘He disturbed peace’ : J-K govt defends PSA against Omar Abdullah See Less SHARE THIS ARTICLE ON ‘He disturbed peace’ : J-K govt defends PSA against Omar Abdullah New Delhi | ByPress Trust of India Updated on: Mar 02, 2020 08:12 pm IST Share Via Copy Link Terming Abdullah as “a very vocal critic” of abrogating Article 370, the J&K administration claimed that his acts squarely fell within the realm of public order as it was “calculated to disturb public peace and tranquility”. Jammu and Kashmir administration informed the Supreme Court on Monday that National Conference leader Omar Abdullah has been detained under the Public Safety Act considering his “past conduct” and possibility of such conduct being repeated on his release, which may “prejudice the public order”. National Conference leader and former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Omar Abdullah was earlier placed under preventive detention by the Centre as per Section 107 of the CrPC right after the removal of Article 370.(Waseem Andrabi/ Hindustan Times) Terming Abdullah as “a very vocal critic” of abrogating Article 370, the J&K administration claimed that his acts squarely fell within the realm of public order as it was “calculated to disturb public peace and tranquility”. The District Magistrate of Srinagar has said this in his reply filed on a plea by Sara Abdullah Pilot, who has challenged the detention of her brother Omar Abdullah under the provision of the Jammu and Kashmir Public Safety Act (PSA). ALSO WATCH | Omar Abdullah’s sister moves Supreme Court against his detention under PSA The J&K administration has said that in the history of independent India the existence and continuance of Article 370 of the Constitution, which used to give special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, has “always remained a contentious and burning issue”. “The detenu has been a very vocal critic of any possible abrogation of Article 370 prior to its abrogation on August 5, 2019. It is submitted that considering the very peculiar geo-political position of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh and its geographical proximity with Islamic Republic of Pakistan, the concept of ‘public order’ needs to be examined contextually,” it said. It also said that Abdullah should have moved the Jammu and Kashmir High Court to avail his remedy before approaching the apex court. The matter came up for hearing on Monday before a bench of Justices Arun Mishra and Indira Banerjee. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for J&K administration, told the bench about the reply filed by the district magistrate. The bench, which posted the matter for hearing on March 5, said the petitioner can file rejoinder, if any, to it. In its reply, J&K administration has said that detention of Abdullah was ordered under section 8 of the PSA after being satisfied that it is necessary to detain him with a view “to prevent him from acting in any manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public order”. It also dealt with submissions advanced in Pilot’s plea which said that as Abdullah was already under detention since August 5 last year, there was no ground to come to a conclusion that he may act in a manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public order. “It is submitted that the said assertion is fallacious and ignores that the subjective satisfaction of the detaining authority, the grounds of detention and the dossier clearly indicate that there exists a live and proximate link in the events that occurred in the past, the activities of the detenu (Abdullah) and the possibility of such activities being prejudicial to maintenance of public order,” it said. “In light of the above, the deponent states and submits that there was ample material and grounds to issue the impugned order of detention against the detenu considering the past conduct and the possibility of such conduct being repeated on release and thereby prejudicing the public order in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir,” it said. The reply further said, “It may not be out of place to mention that so far since 1990, 41,866 persons have lost their lives in 71,038 incidents throughout the erstwhile state of J&K. This includes 14,038 civilians, 5,292 personnel of security forces and 22,536 terrorists.” It said that J&K High Court is seized of over 350 habeas corpus petitions and pleas challenging the detention orders. “It is further submitted that the high court is fully functional and has in fact quashed 68 detention orders since August 2019 while confirming 11 detention orders passed by the appropriate authority,” it said, adding that the petitioner has failed to disclose the reason for not approaching the high court first. “It is submitted that entertaining one petition would open flood gates of petitions which in absence of any special ground to make a departure, needs to be avoided,” it said. Seeking dismissal of the plea for “bypassing the effective alternative remedy” available under the PSA, the district magistrate said, “The detenue has chosen not to file a representation before the advisory board”. Grounds of detention were supplied to Abdullah to enable him to make an effective representation as stipulated in law, it said, adding that the advisory board had on February 24 observed that there was sufficient cause for his detention. “It is submitted that the acts, which are easily available in public domain, on the part of the detenu squarely fell within the realm of public order, as it was calculated to disturb public peace and tranquility. It is needless to emphasise that the incitement of the public at large, pertains to public order,” it said. It said the detention order is “not vague or without any material facts” and such order based on subjective satisfaction of detaining authority cannot be a matter of judicial review. “The deponent states and submits that invocation of jurisdiction of this court to issue high prerogative writ in the present case is unjustified and unwarranted in as much as the detention of the detenu was neither illegal nor unlawful as alleged in the petition,” it said. Pilot has approached the apex court claiming that the detention order was “manifestly illegal” and there was no question of him being a “threat to the maintenance of public order”. Omar Abdullah Public Safety Act Article 370 Supreme Court Get Latest real-time updates on India News, Weather Today, Latest News with including Bihar Chunav and DUSU Election Result Live on Hindustan Times. Get Latest real-time updates on India News, Weather Today, Latest News with including Bihar Chunav and DUSU Election Result Live on Hindustan Times. News / India News / ‘He disturbed peace’ : J-K govt defends PSA against Omar Abdullah See Less SHARE THIS ARTICLE ON ‘He disturbed peace’ : J-K govt defends PSA against Omar Abdullah New Delhi | ByPress Trust of India New Delhi | ByPress Trust of India New Delhi | ByPress Trust of India Updated on: Mar 02, 2020 08:12 pm IST Share Via Copy Link Updated on: Mar 02, 2020 08:12 pm IST Share Via Copy Link Share Via Copy Link Terming Abdullah as “a very vocal critic” of abrogating Article 370, the J&K administration claimed that his acts squarely fell within the realm of public order as it was “calculated to disturb public peace and tranquility”. Jammu and Kashmir administration informed the Supreme Court on Monday that National Conference leader Omar Abdullah has been detained under the Public Safety Act considering his “past conduct” and possibility of such conduct being repeated on his release, which may “prejudice the public order”. National Conference leader and former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Omar Abdullah was earlier placed under preventive detention by the Centre as per Section 107 of the CrPC right after the removal of Article 370.(Waseem Andrabi/ Hindustan Times) Terming Abdullah as “a very vocal critic” of abrogating Article 370, the J&K administration claimed that his acts squarely fell within the realm of public order as it was “calculated to disturb public peace and tranquility”. The District Magistrate of Srinagar has said this in his reply filed on a plea by Sara Abdullah Pilot, who has challenged the detention of her brother Omar Abdullah under the provision of the Jammu and Kashmir Public Safety Act (PSA). ALSO WATCH | Omar Abdullah’s sister moves Supreme Court against his detention under PSA The J&K administration has said that in the history of independent India the existence and continuance of Article 370 of the Constitution, which used to give special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, has “always remained a contentious and burning issue”. “The detenu has been a very vocal critic of any possible abrogation of Article 370 prior to its abrogation on August 5, 2019. It is submitted that considering the very peculiar geo-political position of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh and its geographical proximity with Islamic Republic of Pakistan, the concept of ‘public order’ needs to be examined contextually,” it said. It also said that Abdullah should have moved the Jammu and Kashmir High Court to avail his remedy before approaching the apex court. The matter came up for hearing on Monday before a bench of Justices Arun Mishra and Indira Banerjee. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for J&K administration, told the bench about the reply filed by the district magistrate. The bench, which posted the matter for hearing on March 5, said the petitioner can file rejoinder, if any, to it. In its reply, J&K administration has said that detention of Abdullah was ordered under section 8 of the PSA after being satisfied that it is necessary to detain him with a view “to prevent him from acting in any manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public order”. It also dealt with submissions advanced in Pilot’s plea which said that as Abdullah was already under detention since August 5 last year, there was no ground to come to a conclusion that he may act in a manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public order. “It is submitted that the said assertion is fallacious and ignores that the subjective satisfaction of the detaining authority, the grounds of detention and the dossier clearly indicate that there exists a live and proximate link in the events that occurred in the past, the activities of the detenu (Abdullah) and the possibility of such activities being prejudicial to maintenance of public order,” it said. “In light of the above, the deponent states and submits that there was ample material and grounds to issue the impugned order of detention against the detenu considering the past conduct and the possibility of such conduct being repeated on release and thereby prejudicing the public order in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir,” it said. The reply further said, “It may not be out of place to mention that so far since 1990, 41,866 persons have lost their lives in 71,038 incidents throughout the erstwhile state of J&K. This includes 14,038 civilians, 5,292 personnel of security forces and 22,536 terrorists.” It said that J&K High Court is seized of over 350 habeas corpus petitions and pleas challenging the detention orders. “It is further submitted that the high court is fully functional and has in fact quashed 68 detention orders since August 2019 while confirming 11 detention orders passed by the appropriate authority,” it said, adding that the petitioner has failed to disclose the reason for not approaching the high court first. “It is submitted that entertaining one petition would open flood gates of petitions which in absence of any special ground to make a departure, needs to be avoided,” it said. Seeking dismissal of the plea for “bypassing the effective alternative remedy” available under the PSA, the district magistrate said, “The detenue has chosen not to file a representation before the advisory board”. Grounds of detention were supplied to Abdullah to enable him to make an effective representation as stipulated in law, it said, adding that the advisory board had on February 24 observed that there was sufficient cause for his detention. “It is submitted that the acts, which are easily available in public domain, on the part of the detenu squarely fell within the realm of public order, as it was calculated to disturb public peace and tranquility. It is needless to emphasise that the incitement of the public at large, pertains to public order,” it said. It said the detention order is “not vague or without any material facts” and such order based on subjective satisfaction of detaining authority cannot be a matter of judicial review. “The deponent states and submits that invocation of jurisdiction of this court to issue high prerogative writ in the present case is unjustified and unwarranted in as much as the detention of the detenu was neither illegal nor unlawful as alleged in the petition,” it said. Pilot has approached the apex court claiming that the detention order was “manifestly illegal” and there was no question of him being a “threat to the maintenance of public order”. Omar Abdullah Public Safety Act Article 370 Supreme Court Get Latest real-time updates on India News, Weather Today, Latest News with including Bihar Chunav and DUSU Election Result Live on Hindustan Times. Get Latest real-time updates on India News, Weather Today, Latest News with including Bihar Chunav and DUSU Election Result Live on Hindustan Times. News / India News / ‘He disturbed peace’ : J-K govt defends PSA against Omar Abdullah See Less SHARE THIS ARTICLE ON Jammu and Kashmir administration informed the Supreme Court on Monday that National Conference leader Omar Abdullah has been detained under the Public Safety Act considering his “past conduct” and possibility of such conduct being repeated on his release, which may “prejudice the public order”. National Conference leader and former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Omar Abdullah was earlier placed under preventive detention by the Centre as per Section 107 of the CrPC right after the removal of Article 370.(Waseem Andrabi/ Hindustan Times) Terming Abdullah as “a very vocal critic” of abrogating Article 370, the J&K administration claimed that his acts squarely fell within the realm of public order as it was “calculated to disturb public peace and tranquility”. The District Magistrate of Srinagar has said this in his reply filed on a plea by Sara Abdullah Pilot, who has challenged the detention of her brother Omar Abdullah under the provision of the Jammu and Kashmir Public Safety Act (PSA). ALSO WATCH | Omar Abdullah’s sister moves Supreme Court against his detention under PSA The J&K administration has said that in the history of independent India the existence and continuance of Article 370 of the Constitution, which used to give special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, has “always remained a contentious and burning issue”. “The detenu has been a very vocal critic of any possible abrogation of Article 370 prior to its abrogation on August 5, 2019. It is submitted that considering the very peculiar geo-political position of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh and its geographical proximity with Islamic Republic of Pakistan, the concept of ‘public order’ needs to be examined contextually,” it said. It also said that Abdullah should have moved the Jammu and Kashmir High Court to avail his remedy before approaching the apex court. The matter came up for hearing on Monday before a bench of Justices Arun Mishra and Indira Banerjee. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for J&K administration, told the bench about the reply filed by the district magistrate. The bench, which posted the matter for hearing on March 5, said the petitioner can file rejoinder, if any, to it. In its reply, J&K administration has said that detention of Abdullah was ordered under section 8 of the PSA after being satisfied that it is necessary to detain him with a view “to prevent him from acting in any manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public order”. It also dealt with submissions advanced in Pilot’s plea which said that as Abdullah was already under detention since August 5 last year, there was no ground to come to a conclusion that he may act in a manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public order. “It is submitted that the said assertion is fallacious and ignores that the subjective satisfaction of the detaining authority, the grounds of detention and the dossier clearly indicate that there exists a live and proximate link in the events that occurred in the past, the activities of the detenu (Abdullah) and the possibility of such activities being prejudicial to maintenance of public order,” it said. “In light of the above, the deponent states and submits that there was ample material and grounds to issue the impugned order of detention against the detenu considering the past conduct and the possibility of such conduct being repeated on release and thereby prejudicing the public order in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir,” it said. The reply further said, “It may not be out of place to mention that so far since 1990, 41,866 persons have lost their lives in 71,038 incidents throughout the erstwhile state of J&K. This includes 14,038 civilians, 5,292 personnel of security forces and 22,536 terrorists.” It said that J&K High Court is seized of over 350 habeas corpus petitions and pleas challenging the detention orders. “It is further submitted that the high court is fully functional and has in fact quashed 68 detention orders since August 2019 while confirming 11 detention orders passed by the appropriate authority,” it said, adding that the petitioner has failed to disclose the reason for not approaching the high court first. “It is submitted that entertaining one petition would open flood gates of petitions which in absence of any special ground to make a departure, needs to be avoided,” it said. Seeking dismissal of the plea for “bypassing the effective alternative remedy” available under the PSA, the district magistrate said, “The detenue has chosen not to file a representation before the advisory board”. Grounds of detention were supplied to Abdullah to enable him to make an effective representation as stipulated in law, it said, adding that the advisory board had on February 24 observed that there was sufficient cause for his detention. “It is submitted that the acts, which are easily available in public domain, on the part of the detenu squarely fell within the realm of public order, as it was calculated to disturb public peace and tranquility. It is needless to emphasise that the incitement of the public at large, pertains to public order,” it said. It said the detention order is “not vague or without any material facts” and such order based on subjective satisfaction of detaining authority cannot be a matter of judicial review. “The deponent states and submits that invocation of jurisdiction of this court to issue high prerogative writ in the present case is unjustified and unwarranted in as much as the detention of the detenu was neither illegal nor unlawful as alleged in the petition,” it said. Pilot has approached the apex court claiming that the detention order was “manifestly illegal” and there was no question of him being a “threat to the maintenance of public order”. Jammu and Kashmir administration informed the Supreme Court on Monday that National Conference leader Omar Abdullah has been detained under the Public Safety Act considering his “past conduct” and possibility of such conduct being repeated on his release, which may “prejudice the public order”. National Conference leader and former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Omar Abdullah was earlier placed under preventive detention by the Centre as per Section 107 of the CrPC right after the removal of Article 370.(Waseem Andrabi/ Hindustan Times) Jammu and Kashmir administration informed the Supreme Court on Monday that National Conference leader Omar Abdullah has been detained under the Public Safety Act considering his “past conduct” and possibility of such conduct being repeated on his release, which may “prejudice the public order”. Terming Abdullah as “a very vocal critic” of abrogating Article 370, the J&K administration claimed that his acts squarely fell within the realm of public order as it was “calculated to disturb public peace and tranquility”. The District Magistrate of Srinagar has said this in his reply filed on a plea by Sara Abdullah Pilot, who has challenged the detention of her brother Omar Abdullah under the provision of the Jammu and Kashmir Public Safety Act (PSA). ALSO WATCH | Omar Abdullah’s sister moves Supreme Court against his detention under PSA The J&K administration has said that in the history of independent India the existence and continuance of Article 370 of the Constitution, which used to give special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, has “always remained a contentious and burning issue”. “The detenu has been a very vocal critic of any possible abrogation of Article 370 prior to its abrogation on August 5, 2019. It is submitted that considering the very peculiar geo-political position of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh and its geographical proximity with Islamic Republic of Pakistan, the concept of ‘public order’ needs to be examined contextually,” it said. It also said that Abdullah should have moved the Jammu and Kashmir High Court to avail his remedy before approaching the apex court. The matter came up for hearing on Monday before a bench of Justices Arun Mishra and Indira Banerjee. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for J&K administration, told the bench about the reply filed by the district magistrate. The bench, which posted the matter for hearing on March 5, said the petitioner can file rejoinder, if any, to it. In its reply, J&K administration has said that detention of Abdullah was ordered under section 8 of the PSA after being satisfied that it is necessary to detain him with a view “to prevent him from acting in any manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public order”. It also dealt with submissions advanced in Pilot’s plea which said that as Abdullah was already under detention since August 5 last year, there was no ground to come to a conclusion that he may act in a manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public order. “It is submitted that the said assertion is fallacious and ignores that the subjective satisfaction of the detaining authority, the grounds of detention and the dossier clearly indicate that there exists a live and proximate link in the events that occurred in the past, the activities of the detenu (Abdullah) and the possibility of such activities being prejudicial to maintenance of public order,” it said. “In light of the above, the deponent states and submits that there was ample material and grounds to issue the impugned order of detention against the detenu considering the past conduct and the possibility of such conduct being repeated on release and thereby prejudicing the public order in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir,” it said. The reply further said, “It may not be out of place to mention that so far since 1990, 41,866 persons have lost their lives in 71,038 incidents throughout the erstwhile state of J&K. This includes 14,038 civilians, 5,292 personnel of security forces and 22,536 terrorists.” It said that J&K High Court is seized of over 350 habeas corpus petitions and pleas challenging the detention orders. “It is further submitted that the high court is fully functional and has in fact quashed 68 detention orders since August 2019 while confirming 11 detention orders passed by the appropriate authority,” it said, adding that the petitioner has failed to disclose the reason for not approaching the high court first. “It is submitted that entertaining one petition would open flood gates of petitions which in absence of any special ground to make a departure, needs to be avoided,” it said. Seeking dismissal of the plea for “bypassing the effective alternative remedy” available under the PSA, the district magistrate said, “The detenue has chosen not to file a representation before the advisory board”. Grounds of detention were supplied to Abdullah to enable him to make an effective representation as stipulated in law, it said, adding that the advisory board had on February 24 observed that there was sufficient cause for his detention. “It is submitted that the acts, which are easily available in public domain, on the part of the detenu squarely fell within the realm of public order, as it was calculated to disturb public peace and tranquility. It is needless to emphasise that the incitement of the public at large, pertains to public order,” it said. It said the detention order is “not vague or without any material facts” and such order based on subjective satisfaction of detaining authority cannot be a matter of judicial review. “The deponent states and submits that invocation of jurisdiction of this court to issue high prerogative writ in the present case is unjustified and unwarranted in as much as the detention of the detenu was neither illegal nor unlawful as alleged in the petition,” it said. Pilot has approached the apex court claiming that the detention order was “manifestly illegal” and there was no question of him being a “threat to the maintenance of public order”. Omar Abdullah Public Safety Act Article 370 Supreme Court Get Latest real-time updates on India News, Weather Today, Latest News with including Bihar Chunav and DUSU Election Result Live on Hindustan Times. Omar Abdullah Public Safety Act Article 370 Supreme Court Omar Abdullah Public Safety Act Article 370 Supreme Court Omar Abdullah Public Safety Act Article 370 Supreme Court Omar Abdullah Public Safety Act Article 370 Supreme Court Get Latest real-time updates on India News, Weather Today, Latest News with including Bihar Chunav and DUSU Election Result Live on Hindustan Times. Get Latest real-time updates on India News, Weather Today, Latest News with including Bihar Chunav and DUSU Election Result Live on Hindustan Times. News / India News / ‘He disturbed peace’ : J-K govt defends PSA against Omar Abdullah See Less Get Latest real-time updates on India News, Weather Today, Latest News with including Bihar Chunav and DUSU Election Result Live on Hindustan Times. Get Latest real-time updates on India News, Weather Today, Latest News with including Bihar Chunav and DUSU Election Result Live on Hindustan Times. News / India News / ‘He disturbed peace’ : J-K govt defends PSA against Omar Abdullah News / India News / ‘He disturbed peace’ : J-K govt defends PSA against Omar Abdullah SHARE THIS ARTICLE ON Whatsapp Twitter Facebook Linkedin Join Hindustan Times Create free account and unlock exciting features like Newsletters, Alerts and Recommendations Get personalised news and exciting deals Bookmark the stories you want to read later REGISTER FOR FREE Already have an account? Sign In SKIP Join Hindustan Times Create free account and unlock exciting features like Newsletters, Alerts and Recommendations Get personalised news and exciting deals Bookmark the stories you want to read later REGISTER FOR FREE Already have an account? Sign In SKIP Join Hindustan Times Create free account and unlock exciting features like Already have an account? Sign In About Us Contact us Terms of use Privacy policy Weather Today HT Newsletters Subscription Print Ad Rates Code of Ethics Site Map RSS Feeds Copyright © 2025 HT Digital Streams Limited. All Rights Reserved. About Us Contact us Terms of use Privacy policy Weather Today HT Newsletters Subscription Print Ad Rates Code of Ethics Site Map RSS Feeds Copyright © 2025 HT Digital Streams Limited. All Rights Reserved. About Us Contact us Terms of use Privacy policy Weather Today HT Newsletters Subscription Print Ad Rates Code of Ethics Site Map RSS Feeds Terms of use Privacy policy Weather Today HT Newsletters Subscription Print Ad Rates Code of Ethics Copyright © 2025 HT Digital Streams Limited. All Rights Reserved. Story Saved Edit Profile Subscribe Now Your Subscription Plan Renew Subscription Activate the WSJ Your The WSJ subscription is active Link your email for The WSJ activation Manage Subscription Saved Articles Following My Reads Sign out Edit Profile Edit Profile Subscribe Now Your Subscription Plan Renew Subscription Activate the WSJ Your The WSJ subscription is active Link your email for The WSJ activation Your Subscription Plan Renew Subscription Your The WSJ subscription is active Link your email for The WSJ activation Manage Subscription Saved Articles Subscribe Now! Home HTLS 2024 Astrology Lifestyle Entertainment Elections Trending Videos Education Photos Sports Cities Daily Digest Quickreads Opinion Analysis For You Following Elections 2025 Web Stories Science HT Games Product Hub Livehindustan Podcasts Weather Technology Latest News India News Zubeen Garg Death Bihar Chunav Cricket India vs Oman Live Asia Cup 2025 Asia Cup Match Today Asia Cup Points Table Asia Cup Most Runs Asia Cup Most Wickets Asia Cup player Stats Live Cricket Score Cricket Players ICC Rankings Cricket Schedule World News US News Cities Delhi Mumbai Bengaluru Gurugram Noida Hyderabad Chennai Kolkata Bhopal Chandigarh Dehradun Indore Jaipur Lucknow Patna Pune Ranchi Other Cities Business Income Tax Calculator Petrol Prices Diesel Prices Gold Rate Silver Rate Smart Money Lifestyle Solar Eclipse 2025 Fitness Fashion Health Relationships Art and Culture Travel Recipes Festivals Pet Brunch Entertainment Jolly LLB 3 Review Akshay Kumar Mahavatar Narsimha OTT Release Bollywood TV Web Series Music Hollywood Telugu Cinema Tamil Cinema Anime Education News Engineering Exams Board Exams Study Abroad JEE Exam Results Admission News Employment News Competitive Exams BBA Colleges Engineering Colleges Medical Colleges BCA Colleges BBA Exams BCA Exams Medical Exams Astrology Horoscope Horoscope 2025 Love Horoscope Tarot Chinese Panchang Festival Calendar Compatibility Calculator Career Horoscope Manifestation Transits HT Premium E-Paper The Economist Articles The Wall Street Journal HT Insider HT Insight Videos india news infocus HT Insight Explainer Video On The Record HT Weekend Aur Batao Vikram Chandra Daily Wrap Photos Entertainment Photos Lifestyle Photos News Photos Sports Asia Cup Schedule Asia Cup 2025 Asia Cup Points Table US Sports WWE Football Tennis Hockey Other Sports HT Insight Public Health Economic Policy International Affairs Climate Change Gender Equality knowledge future tech Governance Real Estate Gurugram Real Estate More from HT HT Epaper LiveMint Auto HT Tech HT Bangla HT School Quiz HT Friday Finance HT Premium Explore Hindustan Times HT Newsletters Weather Today About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Print Ad Rates Code of Ethics Sitemap RSS Feeds Subscription - Terms of Use Privacy and Cookie Settings Copyright © HT Digital Streams Ltd. All rights reserved. Follow Us On My Account Sign in Subscribe Now! Subscribe Now! Home HTLS 2024 Astrology Lifestyle Entertainment Elections Trending Videos Education Photos Sports Cities Daily Digest Quickreads Opinion Analysis For You Following Elections 2025 Web Stories Science HT Games Product Hub Livehindustan Podcasts Weather Technology Latest News India News Zubeen Garg Death Bihar Chunav Cricket India vs Oman Live Asia Cup 2025 Asia Cup Match Today Asia Cup Points Table Asia Cup Most Runs Asia Cup Most Wickets Asia Cup player Stats Live Cricket Score Cricket Players ICC Rankings Cricket Schedule World News US News Cities Delhi Mumbai Bengaluru Gurugram Noida Hyderabad Chennai Kolkata Bhopal Chandigarh Dehradun Indore Jaipur Lucknow Patna Pune Ranchi Other Cities Business Income Tax Calculator Petrol Prices Diesel Prices Gold Rate Silver Rate Smart Money Lifestyle Solar Eclipse 2025 Fitness Fashion Health Relationships Art and Culture Travel Recipes Festivals Pet Brunch Entertainment Jolly LLB 3 Review Akshay Kumar Mahavatar Narsimha OTT Release Bollywood TV Web Series Music Hollywood Telugu Cinema Tamil Cinema Anime Education News Engineering Exams Board Exams Study Abroad JEE Exam Results Admission News Employment News Competitive Exams BBA Colleges Engineering Colleges Medical Colleges BCA Colleges BBA Exams BCA Exams Medical Exams Astrology Horoscope Horoscope 2025 Love Horoscope Tarot Chinese Panchang Festival Calendar Compatibility Calculator Career Horoscope Manifestation Transits HT Premium E-Paper The Economist Articles The Wall Street Journal HT Insider HT Insight Videos india news infocus HT Insight Explainer Video On The Record HT Weekend Aur Batao Vikram Chandra Daily Wrap Photos Entertainment Photos Lifestyle Photos News Photos Sports Asia Cup Schedule Asia Cup 2025 Asia Cup Points Table US Sports WWE Football Tennis Hockey Other Sports HT Insight Public Health Economic Policy International Affairs Climate Change Gender Equality knowledge future tech Governance Real Estate Gurugram Real Estate More from HT HT Epaper LiveMint Auto HT Tech HT Bangla HT School Quiz HT Friday Finance HT Premium Explore Hindustan Times HT Newsletters Weather Today About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Print Ad Rates Code of Ethics Sitemap RSS Feeds Subscription - Terms of Use Privacy and Cookie Settings Copyright © HT Digital Streams Ltd. All rights reserved. Entertainment Daily Digest Elections 2025 Web Stories Product Hub Livehindustan Latest News India News Zubeen Garg Death Bihar Chunav Zubeen Garg Death Bihar Chunav Cricket India vs Oman Live Asia Cup 2025 Asia Cup Match Today Asia Cup Points Table Asia Cup Most Runs Asia Cup Most Wickets Asia Cup player Stats Live Cricket Score Cricket Players ICC Rankings Cricket Schedule India vs Oman Live Asia Cup 2025 Asia Cup Match Today Asia Cup Points Table Asia Cup Most Runs Asia Cup Most Wickets Asia Cup player Stats Live Cricket Score Cricket Players ICC Rankings Cricket Schedule World News US News Cities Delhi Mumbai Bengaluru Gurugram Noida Hyderabad Chennai Kolkata Bhopal Chandigarh Dehradun Indore Jaipur Lucknow Patna Pune Ranchi Other Cities Other Cities Business Income Tax Calculator Petrol Prices Diesel Prices Gold Rate Silver Rate Smart Money Income Tax Calculator Petrol Prices Diesel Prices Silver Rate Smart Money Lifestyle Solar Eclipse 2025 Fitness Fashion Health Relationships Art and Culture Travel Recipes Festivals Pet Brunch Solar Eclipse 2025 Relationships Art and Culture Entertainment Jolly LLB 3 Review Akshay Kumar Mahavatar Narsimha OTT Release Bollywood TV Web Series Music Hollywood Telugu Cinema Tamil Cinema Anime Entertainment Jolly LLB 3 Review Akshay Kumar Mahavatar Narsimha OTT Release Telugu Cinema Tamil Cinema Education News Engineering Exams Board Exams Study Abroad JEE Exam Results Admission News Employment News Competitive Exams BBA Colleges Engineering Colleges Medical Colleges BCA Colleges BBA Exams BCA Exams Medical Exams Education News Engineering Exams Board Exams Study Abroad Exam Results Admission News Employment News Competitive Exams BBA Colleges Engineering Colleges Medical Colleges BCA Colleges Medical Exams Astrology Horoscope Horoscope 2025 Love Horoscope Tarot Chinese Panchang Festival Calendar Compatibility Calculator Career Horoscope Manifestation Transits Horoscope 2025 Love Horoscope Festival Calendar Compatibility Calculator Career Horoscope Manifestation HT Premium E-Paper The Economist Articles The Wall Street Journal HT Insider HT Insight The Economist Articles The Wall Street Journal Videos india news infocus HT Insight Explainer Video On The Record HT Weekend Aur Batao Vikram Chandra Daily Wrap Explainer Video On The Record Vikram Chandra Daily Wrap Photos Entertainment Photos Lifestyle Photos News Photos Entertainment Photos Lifestyle Photos News Photos Sports Asia Cup Schedule Asia Cup 2025 Asia Cup Points Table US Sports WWE Football Tennis Hockey Other Sports Asia Cup Schedule Asia Cup 2025 Asia Cup Points Table Other Sports HT Insight Public Health Economic Policy International Affairs Climate Change Gender Equality knowledge future tech Governance Public Health Economic Policy International Affairs Climate Change Gender Equality future tech Real Estate Gurugram Real Estate Real Estate Gurugram Real Estate More from HT HT Epaper LiveMint Auto HT Tech HT Bangla HT School Quiz HT Friday Finance HT Premium More from HT HT Friday Finance Explore Hindustan Times HT Newsletters Weather Today Privacy Policy Terms of Use Print Ad Rates Code of Ethics Subscription - Terms of Use Privacy and Cookie Settings Copyright © HT Digital Streams Ltd. All rights reserved. Follow Us On My Account Sign in Follow Us On My Account Sign in Home Cricket Premium Games