Source: https://aminoapps.com/c/lemonadebarbies/page/item/lemonade-album/dP7k_MMSaIm87gdxWYq34En4LEMbvY8bP3
Title: Lemonade (Album) | Wiki | Lemonade Barbies Amino
Words: 4456

================================================================================

My Rating Released April 23, 2016 Recorded 2014-2015 Genre R&B Length 45:49 Singles From Lemonade "Formation" Released: February 6, 2016 "Sorry" Released: May 3, 2016 "Hold Up" Released: May 12, 2016 "Freedom" Released: September 9, 2016 "All Night" Released: December 6, 2016 Lemonade is the sixth studio album by American singer and songwriter Beyoncé. It was released on April 23, 2016, by Parkwood Entertainment and distributed through Columbia Records. The record is Beyoncé's second "visual album", following her eponymous 2013 record, and a concept album according to official description "a conceptual project based on every woman’s journey of self knowledge and healing"For the 59th Grammy Awards, Lemonade received 9 nominations, including Album of the Year, Best Urban Contemporary Album and Best Music Film. Its leading single "Formation" received nominations for Record of the Year, Song of the Year, and Best Music Video, while "Hold Up", "Don't Hurt Yourself" and "Freedom" were nominated in pop, rock and rap categories.Commercial PerformanceIn the United States, Lemonade debuted at number one on the Billboard 200, with 653,000 album-equivalent units, selling 485,000 copies in its first week. Subsequently, she broke the record she previously tied with DMX, by becoming the first artist in the chart's history to have their first six studio albums debut at number one.[120] In the same week, Beyoncé became the first female to chart 12 or more songs on the US Billboard Hot 100 at the same time, with every song on the album debuting on the chart. She passed the previously held record of 11 by Taylor Swift's Speak Now album.[121] Additionally, Lemonade was streamed 115 million times via Tidal, setting a record for the most-streamed album in a single week by a female artist in history.[122] The album slipped from number one to number two in its second week, selling 196,000 copies (321,000 with additional equivalent-album units). It remained at number two in its third week selling 153,000 copies (201,000 album equivalent units). Lemonade was certified platinum by the RIAA in June 2016. According to Nielsen's 2016 Year-end Report, it has sold over 1.5 million copies and 2.1m album-equivalent units in the United States.[123] In Canada, the album debuted at number one with sales of 33,000 copies.[124]The album debuted at number one on the UK Albums Chart selling 73,000 copies in its first week of release, with 10,000 equivalent sales (14% of the total sales) accounting for streaming, marking the largest ever for a number-one album since the chart included streaming.[125] The album marked the singer's third number-one album on that chart and was certified platinum by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI) on September 9, 2016 for shipment of 300,000 copies.[125][126] All of the album's tracks also debuted in the Top 100 of the Official Singles Chart in the UK.[127]In Australia, Lemonade sold 20,490 digital copies to debut at the top spot and become Beyoncé's second consecutive number one album in that country.[128] It received a platinum certification by the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA) for shipments of 70,000 copies.VisualsThe album was accompanied by the release of a 60-minute film of the same name, which premiered on HBO on April 23, 2016.[14] Lemonade was divided into 11 chapters named Intuition, Denial, Anger, Apathy, Emptiness, Accountability, Reformation, Forgiveness, Resurrection, Hope, and Redemption.[15]The film uses poetry and prose written by expatriate Somali poet Warsan Shire; her poems which she adapted were "The Unbearable Weight of Staying", "Dear Moon", "How to Wear Your Mother's Lipstick", "Nail Technician as Palm Reader", and "For Women Who Are Difficult to Love".[16][17] It also features Ibeyi, Laolu Senbanjo, Amandla Stenberg, Quvenzhané Wallis, Chloe x Halle, Zendaya, and Serena Williams.[18] In "Forward", the mothers of Trayvon Martin (Sybrina Fulton), Michael Brown (Lesley McFadden), and Eric Garner (Gwen Carr) are featured holding pictures of their deceased sons.[19][20] Jay Z and Beyonce’s daughter Blue Ivy appear in home video footage at one point, as does Jay Z’s grandmother, Hattie (as previously mentioned), and Beyoncé’s mother Tina Knowles, who is shown with her second husband Richard Lawler on their wedding day in 2015.[6] The film also samples work by Malcolm X, specifically an excerpt from his speech "Who Taught You to Hate Yourself", which is featured on the track "Don't Hurt Yourself".[21]Lemonade pays tribute to New Orleans culture, from jazz funerals and the Edna Karr Marching Band to Mardi Gras Indians and Queen of Creole cuisine, Leah Chase. Beyoncé also returns to the Superdome, which was not just the site of her first Super Bowl performance but a shelter of last resort after Hurricane Katrina, where three people died. Lemonade repeatedly returns to the moss-covered bayou, to buildings that resemble plantation homes and their attendant slave quarters. But instead of an antebellum memory, these scenes portray a dream: the fantasy of an all-black, matriarchal utopia when women dress up, prepare meals, take photographs and perform shows, not for a master but for themselves. Anachronistic details like period dress and antique cameras contribute to the dream-like feeling of these scenes, which evoke post-Civil War black towns like Zora Neale Hurston’s Eatonville, feminist gatherings like the Michigan Womyn’s Music Festival and (as dream hampton notes) Julie Dash’s Daughters of the Dust.[7]Lemonade connects cultures along with the all-too-common stories of hardships and resilience in black women worldwide, in “Hold Up,” the album’s second single, Beyoncé appears as Oshun, a Yoruba water goddess of female sensuality, love and fertility. Oshun is often shown in yellow and surrounded by fresh water. Donning a flowing yellow Roberto Cavalli dress, gold jewelry and bare feet, Beyoncé channels the orisha, or goddess, by appearing in an underwater dreamlike state before emerging from two large golden doors with water rushing past her and down the stairs, folktales of Oshun describe her malevolent temper and sinister smile when she has been wronged. In “Hold Up,” a smiling, laughing and dancing Beyoncé smashes store windows, cars and cameras with a baseball bat. In ''Love Drought'', Beyoncé leads a line of black women dressed in white along a shoreline. They stand, unified, looking out into the water as they hold hands and lift them one by one. This second reference to baptism is heavy in this scene along with messages of faith and love, which are, the lyrics say, “strong enough to move a mountain” or “end a drought.”[8] The HBO broadcast logged 787,000 viewers.[22]The visual was nominated for 4 Primetime Emmy Awards, including Outstanding Variety Special and Outstanding Directing for a Variety Special. From the four categories, Beyoncé was nominated in the two mentioned.[23]In June 2016, Matthew Fulks sued Beyoncé, Sony, Columbia and Parkwood Entertainment for allegedly lifting elements of his short film, Palinoia, for Lemonade. The lawsuit specifically targets the trailer for the HBO special.[24] Fulks had accused her of stealing nine visual elements from Palinoia.[25] The lawsuit was subsequently dismissed by New York federal judge Jed S. Rakoff, siding with the defendant.Accolades"Formation" won in three categories at the 2016 BET Awards for Video of the Year, the Centric Award, and the Viewers Choice Award.[74] The Lemonade film was nominated for four Primetime Emmy Awards, including Outstanding Variety Special and Outstanding Directing for a Variety Special. From the four categories, Beyoncé was nominated in the two mentioned.[23] The album's visuals received 11 nominations at the 2016 MTV Video Music Awards. They included Breakthrough Long Form Video for Lemonade, Video of the Year, Best Pop Video, Best Direction, Best Editing, and Best Cinematography for "Formation", Best Female Video and Best Art Direction for "Hold Up", and Best Choreography for "Sorry" and "Formation".[75] Beyoncé went on to win eight of her nominations, including Video of the Year and Breakthrough Long Form Video.[76] She received two nominations at the 2016 MTV Video Music Awards Japan for Best Album of the Year for Lemonade and Best Female Video International for "Formation", eventually winning for Best Album of the Year.[77][78] At the 2016 Soul Train Music Awards, Beyoncé was nominated for eight awards including Best Female Artist, Lemonade for Album of the Year, and "Formation" for Song and Video of the Year. Beyoncé went on to win all four awards. Lemonade won Best TV Show – Special or Limited Series at the African American Film Critics Association.[79] At the 2017 NAACP Image Awards, Lemonade is nominated for Outstanding Album and Outstanding Variety – Series or Special, "Formation" is nominated for Outstanding Song and Outstanding Video, and "Freedom", featuring Kendrick Lamar, is nominated for Outstanding Duo, Group or Collaboration and Outstanding Song. At the 2016 ADG Excellence in Production Design Awards, Lemonade is nominated for Best Awards or Event Special, with "Hold Up", "6 Inch" and "Denial" all being nominated for Best Short Format: Web Series, Music Video or Commercial.Track Listing1. Pray You Catch Me2. Hold Up3. Don't Hurt Yourself Ft Jack White4. Sorry5. 6 Inch Ft The Weeknd6. Daddy Lessons7. Love Drought8. Sandcastles9. Forward Ft James Blake10. Freedom Ft Kendrick Lamar11. All Night12. FormationMy Top 5 Favorite SongsDon't Hurt YourselfAll NightHold UpDaddy LessonsSandcastles Lemonade is the sixth studio album by American singer and songwriter Beyoncé. It was released on April 23, 2016, by Parkwood Entertainment and distributed through Columbia Records. The record is Beyoncé's second "visual album", following her eponymous 2013 record, and a concept album according to official description "a conceptual project based on every woman’s journey of self knowledge and healing"For the 59th Grammy Awards, Lemonade received 9 nominations, including Album of the Year, Best Urban Contemporary Album and Best Music Film. Its leading single "Formation" received nominations for Record of the Year, Song of the Year, and Best Music Video, while "Hold Up", "Don't Hurt Yourself" and "Freedom" were nominated in pop, rock and rap categories.Commercial PerformanceIn the United States, Lemonade debuted at number one on the Billboard 200, with 653,000 album-equivalent units, selling 485,000 copies in its first week. Subsequently, she broke the record she previously tied with DMX, by becoming the first artist in the chart's history to have their first six studio albums debut at number one.[120] In the same week, Beyoncé became the first female to chart 12 or more songs on the US Billboard Hot 100 at the same time, with every song on the album debuting on the chart. She passed the previously held record of 11 by Taylor Swift's Speak Now album.[121] Additionally, Lemonade was streamed 115 million times via Tidal, setting a record for the most-streamed album in a single week by a female artist in history.[122] The album slipped from number one to number two in its second week, selling 196,000 copies (321,000 with additional equivalent-album units). It remained at number two in its third week selling 153,000 copies (201,000 album equivalent units). Lemonade was certified platinum by the RIAA in June 2016. According to Nielsen's 2016 Year-end Report, it has sold over 1.5 million copies and 2.1m album-equivalent units in the United States.[123] In Canada, the album debuted at number one with sales of 33,000 copies.[124]The album debuted at number one on the UK Albums Chart selling 73,000 copies in its first week of release, with 10,000 equivalent sales (14% of the total sales) accounting for streaming, marking the largest ever for a number-one album since the chart included streaming.[125] The album marked the singer's third number-one album on that chart and was certified platinum by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI) on September 9, 2016 for shipment of 300,000 copies.[125][126] All of the album's tracks also debuted in the Top 100 of the Official Singles Chart in the UK.[127]In Australia, Lemonade sold 20,490 digital copies to debut at the top spot and become Beyoncé's second consecutive number one album in that country.[128] It received a platinum certification by the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA) for shipments of 70,000 copies.VisualsThe album was accompanied by the release of a 60-minute film of the same name, which premiered on HBO on April 23, 2016.[14] Lemonade was divided into 11 chapters named Intuition, Denial, Anger, Apathy, Emptiness, Accountability, Reformation, Forgiveness, Resurrection, Hope, and Redemption.[15]The film uses poetry and prose written by expatriate Somali poet Warsan Shire; her poems which she adapted were "The Unbearable Weight of Staying", "Dear Moon", "How to Wear Your Mother's Lipstick", "Nail Technician as Palm Reader", and "For Women Who Are Difficult to Love".[16][17] It also features Ibeyi, Laolu Senbanjo, Amandla Stenberg, Quvenzhané Wallis, Chloe x Halle, Zendaya, and Serena Williams.[18] In "Forward", the mothers of Trayvon Martin (Sybrina Fulton), Michael Brown (Lesley McFadden), and Eric Garner (Gwen Carr) are featured holding pictures of their deceased sons.[19][20] Jay Z and Beyonce’s daughter Blue Ivy appear in home video footage at one point, as does Jay Z’s grandmother, Hattie (as previously mentioned), and Beyoncé’s mother Tina Knowles, who is shown with her second husband Richard Lawler on their wedding day in 2015.[6] The film also samples work by Malcolm X, specifically an excerpt from his speech "Who Taught You to Hate Yourself", which is featured on the track "Don't Hurt Yourself".[21]Lemonade pays tribute to New Orleans culture, from jazz funerals and the Edna Karr Marching Band to Mardi Gras Indians and Queen of Creole cuisine, Leah Chase. Beyoncé also returns to the Superdome, which was not just the site of her first Super Bowl performance but a shelter of last resort after Hurricane Katrina, where three people died. Lemonade repeatedly returns to the moss-covered bayou, to buildings that resemble plantation homes and their attendant slave quarters. But instead of an antebellum memory, these scenes portray a dream: the fantasy of an all-black, matriarchal utopia when women dress up, prepare meals, take photographs and perform shows, not for a master but for themselves. Anachronistic details like period dress and antique cameras contribute to the dream-like feeling of these scenes, which evoke post-Civil War black towns like Zora Neale Hurston’s Eatonville, feminist gatherings like the Michigan Womyn’s Music Festival and (as dream hampton notes) Julie Dash’s Daughters of the Dust.[7]Lemonade connects cultures along with the all-too-common stories of hardships and resilience in black women worldwide, in “Hold Up,” the album’s second single, Beyoncé appears as Oshun, a Yoruba water goddess of female sensuality, love and fertility. Oshun is often shown in yellow and surrounded by fresh water. Donning a flowing yellow Roberto Cavalli dress, gold jewelry and bare feet, Beyoncé channels the orisha, or goddess, by appearing in an underwater dreamlike state before emerging from two large golden doors with water rushing past her and down the stairs, folktales of Oshun describe her malevolent temper and sinister smile when she has been wronged. In “Hold Up,” a smiling, laughing and dancing Beyoncé smashes store windows, cars and cameras with a baseball bat. In ''Love Drought'', Beyoncé leads a line of black women dressed in white along a shoreline. They stand, unified, looking out into the water as they hold hands and lift them one by one. This second reference to baptism is heavy in this scene along with messages of faith and love, which are, the lyrics say, “strong enough to move a mountain” or “end a drought.”[8] The HBO broadcast logged 787,000 viewers.[22]The visual was nominated for 4 Primetime Emmy Awards, including Outstanding Variety Special and Outstanding Directing for a Variety Special. From the four categories, Beyoncé was nominated in the two mentioned.[23]In June 2016, Matthew Fulks sued Beyoncé, Sony, Columbia and Parkwood Entertainment for allegedly lifting elements of his short film, Palinoia, for Lemonade. The lawsuit specifically targets the trailer for the HBO special.[24] Fulks had accused her of stealing nine visual elements from Palinoia.[25] The lawsuit was subsequently dismissed by New York federal judge Jed S. Rakoff, siding with the defendant.Accolades"Formation" won in three categories at the 2016 BET Awards for Video of the Year, the Centric Award, and the Viewers Choice Award.[74] The Lemonade film was nominated for four Primetime Emmy Awards, including Outstanding Variety Special and Outstanding Directing for a Variety Special. From the four categories, Beyoncé was nominated in the two mentioned.[23] The album's visuals received 11 nominations at the 2016 MTV Video Music Awards. They included Breakthrough Long Form Video for Lemonade, Video of the Year, Best Pop Video, Best Direction, Best Editing, and Best Cinematography for "Formation", Best Female Video and Best Art Direction for "Hold Up", and Best Choreography for "Sorry" and "Formation".[75] Beyoncé went on to win eight of her nominations, including Video of the Year and Breakthrough Long Form Video.[76] She received two nominations at the 2016 MTV Video Music Awards Japan for Best Album of the Year for Lemonade and Best Female Video International for "Formation", eventually winning for Best Album of the Year.[77][78] At the 2016 Soul Train Music Awards, Beyoncé was nominated for eight awards including Best Female Artist, Lemonade for Album of the Year, and "Formation" for Song and Video of the Year. Beyoncé went on to win all four awards. Lemonade won Best TV Show – Special or Limited Series at the African American Film Critics Association.[79] At the 2017 NAACP Image Awards, Lemonade is nominated for Outstanding Album and Outstanding Variety – Series or Special, "Formation" is nominated for Outstanding Song and Outstanding Video, and "Freedom", featuring Kendrick Lamar, is nominated for Outstanding Duo, Group or Collaboration and Outstanding Song. At the 2016 ADG Excellence in Production Design Awards, Lemonade is nominated for Best Awards or Event Special, with "Hold Up", "6 Inch" and "Denial" all being nominated for Best Short Format: Web Series, Music Video or Commercial.Track Listing1. Pray You Catch Me2. Hold Up3. Don't Hurt Yourself Ft Jack White4. Sorry5. 6 Inch Ft The Weeknd6. Daddy Lessons7. Love Drought8. Sandcastles9. Forward Ft James Blake10. Freedom Ft Kendrick Lamar11. All Night12. FormationMy Top 5 Favorite SongsDon't Hurt YourselfAll NightHold UpDaddy LessonsSandcastles Lemonade is the sixth studio album by American singer and songwriter Beyoncé. It was released on April 23, 2016, by Parkwood Entertainment and distributed through Columbia Records. The record is Beyoncé's second "visual album", following her eponymous 2013 record, and a concept album according to official description "a conceptual project based on every woman’s journey of self knowledge and healing" For the 59th Grammy Awards, Lemonade received 9 nominations, including Album of the Year, Best Urban Contemporary Album and Best Music Film. Its leading single "Formation" received nominations for Record of the Year, Song of the Year, and Best Music Video, while "Hold Up", "Don't Hurt Yourself" and "Freedom" were nominated in pop, rock and rap categories. Commercial Performance In the United States, Lemonade debuted at number one on the Billboard 200, with 653,000 album-equivalent units, selling 485,000 copies in its first week. Subsequently, she broke the record she previously tied with DMX, by becoming the first artist in the chart's history to have their first six studio albums debut at number one.[120] In the same week, Beyoncé became the first female to chart 12 or more songs on the US Billboard Hot 100 at the same time, with every song on the album debuting on the chart. She passed the previously held record of 11 by Taylor Swift's Speak Now album.[121] Additionally, Lemonade was streamed 115 million times via Tidal, setting a record for the most-streamed album in a single week by a female artist in history.[122] The album slipped from number one to number two in its second week, selling 196,000 copies (321,000 with additional equivalent-album units). It remained at number two in its third week selling 153,000 copies (201,000 album equivalent units). Lemonade was certified platinum by the RIAA in June 2016. According to Nielsen's 2016 Year-end Report, it has sold over 1.5 million copies and 2.1m album-equivalent units in the United States.[123] In Canada, the album debuted at number one with sales of 33,000 copies.[124] The album debuted at number one on the UK Albums Chart selling 73,000 copies in its first week of release, with 10,000 equivalent sales (14% of the total sales) accounting for streaming, marking the largest ever for a number-one album since the chart included streaming.[125] The album marked the singer's third number-one album on that chart and was certified platinum by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI) on September 9, 2016 for shipment of 300,000 copies.[125][126] All of the album's tracks also debuted in the Top 100 of the Official Singles Chart in the UK.[127] In Australia, Lemonade sold 20,490 digital copies to debut at the top spot and become Beyoncé's second consecutive number one album in that country.[128] It received a platinum certification by the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA) for shipments of 70,000 copies. The album was accompanied by the release of a 60-minute film of the same name, which premiered on HBO on April 23, 2016.[14] Lemonade was divided into 11 chapters named Intuition, Denial, Anger, Apathy, Emptiness, Accountability, Reformation, Forgiveness, Resurrection, Hope, and Redemption.[15] The film uses poetry and prose written by expatriate Somali poet Warsan Shire; her poems which she adapted were "The Unbearable Weight of Staying", "Dear Moon", "How to Wear Your Mother's Lipstick", "Nail Technician as Palm Reader", and "For Women Who Are Difficult to Love".[16][17] It also features Ibeyi, Laolu Senbanjo, Amandla Stenberg, Quvenzhané Wallis, Chloe x Halle, Zendaya, and Serena Williams.[18] In "Forward", the mothers of Trayvon Martin (Sybrina Fulton), Michael Brown (Lesley McFadden), and Eric Garner (Gwen Carr) are featured holding pictures of their deceased sons.[19][20] Jay Z and Beyonce’s daughter Blue Ivy appear in home video footage at one point, as does Jay Z’s grandmother, Hattie (as previously mentioned), and Beyoncé’s mother Tina Knowles, who is shown with her second husband Richard Lawler on their wedding day in 2015.[6] The film also samples work by Malcolm X, specifically an excerpt from his speech "Who Taught You to Hate Yourself", which is featured on the track "Don't Hurt Yourself".[21] Lemonade pays tribute to New Orleans culture, from jazz funerals and the Edna Karr Marching Band to Mardi Gras Indians and Queen of Creole cuisine, Leah Chase. Beyoncé also returns to the Superdome, which was not just the site of her first Super Bowl performance but a shelter of last resort after Hurricane Katrina, where three people died. Lemonade repeatedly returns to the moss-covered bayou, to buildings that resemble plantation homes and their attendant slave quarters. But instead of an antebellum memory, these scenes portray a dream: the fantasy of an all-black, matriarchal utopia when women dress up, prepare meals, take photographs and perform shows, not for a master but for themselves. Anachronistic details like period dress and antique cameras contribute to the dream-like feeling of these scenes, which evoke post-Civil War black towns like Zora Neale Hurston’s Eatonville, feminist gatherings like the Michigan Womyn’s Music Festival and (as dream hampton notes) Julie Dash’s Daughters of the Dust.[7] Lemonade connects cultures along with the all-too-common stories of hardships and resilience in black women worldwide, in “Hold Up,” the album’s second single, Beyoncé appears as Oshun, a Yoruba water goddess of female sensuality, love and fertility. Oshun is often shown in yellow and surrounded by fresh water. Donning a flowing yellow Roberto Cavalli dress, gold jewelry and bare feet, Beyoncé channels the orisha, or goddess, by appearing in an underwater dreamlike state before emerging from two large golden doors with water rushing past her and down the stairs, folktales of Oshun describe her malevolent temper and sinister smile when she has been wronged. In “Hold Up,” a smiling, laughing and dancing Beyoncé smashes store windows, cars and cameras with a baseball bat. In ''Love Drought'', Beyoncé leads a line of black women dressed in white along a shoreline. They stand, unified, looking out into the water as they hold hands and lift them one by one. This second reference to baptism is heavy in this scene along with messages of faith and love, which are, the lyrics say, “strong enough to move a mountain” or “end a drought.”[8] The HBO broadcast logged 787,000 viewers.[22] The visual was nominated for 4 Primetime Emmy Awards, including Outstanding Variety Special and Outstanding Directing for a Variety Special. From the four categories, Beyoncé was nominated in the two mentioned.[23] In June 2016, Matthew Fulks sued Beyoncé, Sony, Columbia and Parkwood Entertainment for allegedly lifting elements of his short film, Palinoia, for Lemonade. The lawsuit specifically targets the trailer for the HBO special.[24] Fulks had accused her of stealing nine visual elements from Palinoia.[25] The lawsuit was subsequently dismissed by New York federal judge Jed S. Rakoff, siding with the defendant. "Formation" won in three categories at the 2016 BET Awards for Video of the Year, the Centric Award, and the Viewers Choice Award.[74] The Lemonade film was nominated for four Primetime Emmy Awards, including Outstanding Variety Special and Outstanding Directing for a Variety Special. From the four categories, Beyoncé was nominated in the two mentioned.[23] The album's visuals received 11 nominations at the 2016 MTV Video Music Awards. They included Breakthrough Long Form Video for Lemonade, Video of the Year, Best Pop Video, Best Direction, Best Editing, and Best Cinematography for "Formation", Best Female Video and Best Art Direction for "Hold Up", and Best Choreography for "Sorry" and "Formation".[75] Beyoncé went on to win eight of her nominations, including Video of the Year and Breakthrough Long Form Video.[76] She received two nominations at the 2016 MTV Video Music Awards Japan for Best Album of the Year for Lemonade and Best Female Video International for "Formation", eventually winning for Best Album of the Year.[77][78] At the 2016 Soul Train Music Awards, Beyoncé was nominated for eight awards including Best Female Artist, Lemonade for Album of the Year, and "Formation" for Song and Video of the Year. Beyoncé went on to win all four awards. Lemonade won Best TV Show – Special or Limited Series at the African American Film Critics Association.[79] At the 2017 NAACP Image Awards, Lemonade is nominated for Outstanding Album and Outstanding Variety – Series or Special, "Formation" is nominated for Outstanding Song and Outstanding Video, and "Freedom", featuring Kendrick Lamar, is nominated for Outstanding Duo, Group or Collaboration and Outstanding Song. At the 2016 ADG Excellence in Production Design Awards, Lemonade is nominated for Best Awards or Event Special, with "Hold Up", "6 Inch" and "Denial" all being nominated for Best Short Format: Web Series, Music Video or Commercial. Track Listing 1. Pray You Catch Me 3. Don't Hurt Yourself Ft Jack White 5. 6 Inch Ft The Weeknd 6. Daddy Lessons 7. Love Drought 8. Sandcastles 9. Forward Ft James Blake 10. Freedom Ft Kendrick Lamar 11. All Night 12. Formation My Top 5 Favorite Songs Don't Hurt Yourself Daddy Lessons Sandcastles Linked Wiki Entries Beyoncé Knowles Beyoncé Knowles Beyoncé Knowles Beyoncé Knowles Likes (6) Comments (0) Copied Likes (6) Comments (0) Comments (0) Into Lemonade Barbies? Join the community. Get Amino Into Lemonade Barbies? Join the community. Related wiki Katy Challenge Katy Challenge Related wiki Rihanna Related wiki Lemonade Related wiki Destiny's Child Destiny's Child