Source: https://blog.playstation.com/2019/10/08/an-update-on-next-gen-playstation-5-launches-holiday-2020/
Title: An Update on Next-Gen: PlayStation 5 Launches Holiday 2020 – PlayStation.Blog
Words: 2618

================================================================================

October 8, 2019October 8, 2019 An Update on Next-Gen: PlayStation 5 Launches Holiday 2020 247 0 5,236 October 8, 2019October 8, 2019 An Update on Next-Gen: PlayStation 5 Launches Holiday 2020 247 0 5,236 An Update on Next-Gen: PlayStation 5 Launches Holiday 2020 247 0 5,236 Like this Featuring a new controller with haptic technology and adaptive triggers. Jim Ryan President & CEO, Sony Interactive Entertainment Since we originally unveiled our next-generation console in April, we know that there’s been a lot of excitement and interest in hearing more about what the future of games will bring. Today I’m proud to share that our next-generation console will be called PlayStation 5, and we’ll be launching in time for Holiday 2020. These updates may not be a huge surprise, but we wanted to confirm them for our PlayStation fans, as we start to reveal additional details about our vision for the next generation. WIRED magazine covered these updates and more in a story that posted this morning. The “more” refers to something I’m quite excited about – a preview of the new controller that will ship with PlayStation 5. One of our goals with the next generation is to deepen the feeling of immersion when you play games, and we had the opportunity with our new controller to reimagine how the sense of touch can add to that immersion. To that end, there are two key innovations with the PlayStation 5’s new controller. First, we’re adopting haptic feedback to replace the “rumble” technology found in controllers since the 5th generation of consoles. With haptics, you truly feel a broader range of feedback, so crashing into a wall in a race car feels much different than making a tackle on the football field. You can even get a sense for a variety of textures when running through fields of grass or plodding through mud. The second innovation is something we call adaptive triggers, which have been incorporated into the trigger buttons (L2/R2). Developers can program the resistance of the triggers so that you feel the tactile sensation of drawing a bow and arrow or accelerating an off-road vehicle through rocky terrain. In combination with the haptics, this can produce a powerful experience that better simulates various actions. Game creators have started to receive early versions of the new controller, and we can’t wait to see where their imagination goes with these new features at their disposal. While there’s much more to share about PlayStation 5 in the year ahead, we have plenty of blockbuster experiences coming your way on PS4, including Death Stranding, The Last of Us Part II, and Ghost of Tsushima. I’d like to thank all PlayStation fans for continuing the journey with us, as we embark on the future of games. playstation 5ps5 Did you like this? Like this Like this Featuring a new controller with haptic technology and adaptive triggers. Jim Ryan President & CEO, Sony Interactive Entertainment Since we originally unveiled our next-generation console in April, we know that there’s been a lot of excitement and interest in hearing more about what the future of games will bring. Today I’m proud to share that our next-generation console will be called PlayStation 5, and we’ll be launching in time for Holiday 2020. These updates may not be a huge surprise, but we wanted to confirm them for our PlayStation fans, as we start to reveal additional details about our vision for the next generation. WIRED magazine covered these updates and more in a story that posted this morning. The “more” refers to something I’m quite excited about – a preview of the new controller that will ship with PlayStation 5. One of our goals with the next generation is to deepen the feeling of immersion when you play games, and we had the opportunity with our new controller to reimagine how the sense of touch can add to that immersion. To that end, there are two key innovations with the PlayStation 5’s new controller. First, we’re adopting haptic feedback to replace the “rumble” technology found in controllers since the 5th generation of consoles. With haptics, you truly feel a broader range of feedback, so crashing into a wall in a race car feels much different than making a tackle on the football field. You can even get a sense for a variety of textures when running through fields of grass or plodding through mud. The second innovation is something we call adaptive triggers, which have been incorporated into the trigger buttons (L2/R2). Developers can program the resistance of the triggers so that you feel the tactile sensation of drawing a bow and arrow or accelerating an off-road vehicle through rocky terrain. In combination with the haptics, this can produce a powerful experience that better simulates various actions. Game creators have started to receive early versions of the new controller, and we can’t wait to see where their imagination goes with these new features at their disposal. While there’s much more to share about PlayStation 5 in the year ahead, we have plenty of blockbuster experiences coming your way on PS4, including Death Stranding, The Last of Us Part II, and Ghost of Tsushima. I’d like to thank all PlayStation fans for continuing the journey with us, as we embark on the future of games. playstation 5ps5 Did you like this? Like this Featuring a new controller with haptic technology and adaptive triggers. Jim Ryan President & CEO, Sony Interactive Entertainment Featuring a new controller with haptic technology and adaptive triggers. Jim Ryan President & CEO, Sony Interactive Entertainment Featuring a new controller with haptic technology and adaptive triggers. Jim Ryan President & CEO, Sony Interactive Entertainment Jim Ryan President & CEO, Sony Interactive Entertainment Jim Ryan President & CEO, Sony Interactive Entertainment Jim Ryan President & CEO, Sony Interactive Entertainment Since we originally unveiled our next-generation console in April, we know that there’s been a lot of excitement and interest in hearing more about what the future of games will bring. Today I’m proud to share that our next-generation console will be called PlayStation 5, and we’ll be launching in time for Holiday 2020. These updates may not be a huge surprise, but we wanted to confirm them for our PlayStation fans, as we start to reveal additional details about our vision for the next generation. WIRED magazine covered these updates and more in a story that posted this morning. The “more” refers to something I’m quite excited about – a preview of the new controller that will ship with PlayStation 5. One of our goals with the next generation is to deepen the feeling of immersion when you play games, and we had the opportunity with our new controller to reimagine how the sense of touch can add to that immersion. To that end, there are two key innovations with the PlayStation 5’s new controller. First, we’re adopting haptic feedback to replace the “rumble” technology found in controllers since the 5th generation of consoles. With haptics, you truly feel a broader range of feedback, so crashing into a wall in a race car feels much different than making a tackle on the football field. You can even get a sense for a variety of textures when running through fields of grass or plodding through mud. The second innovation is something we call adaptive triggers, which have been incorporated into the trigger buttons (L2/R2). Developers can program the resistance of the triggers so that you feel the tactile sensation of drawing a bow and arrow or accelerating an off-road vehicle through rocky terrain. In combination with the haptics, this can produce a powerful experience that better simulates various actions. Game creators have started to receive early versions of the new controller, and we can’t wait to see where their imagination goes with these new features at their disposal. While there’s much more to share about PlayStation 5 in the year ahead, we have plenty of blockbuster experiences coming your way on PS4, including Death Stranding, The Last of Us Part II, and Ghost of Tsushima. I’d like to thank all PlayStation fans for continuing the journey with us, as we embark on the future of games. Since we originally unveiled our next-generation console in April, we know that there’s been a lot of excitement and interest in hearing more about what the future of games will bring. Today I’m proud to share that our next-generation console will be called PlayStation 5, and we’ll be launching in time for Holiday 2020. These updates may not be a huge surprise, but we wanted to confirm them for our PlayStation fans, as we start to reveal additional details about our vision for the next generation. WIRED magazine covered these updates and more in a story that posted this morning. The “more” refers to something I’m quite excited about – a preview of the new controller that will ship with PlayStation 5. One of our goals with the next generation is to deepen the feeling of immersion when you play games, and we had the opportunity with our new controller to reimagine how the sense of touch can add to that immersion. To that end, there are two key innovations with the PlayStation 5’s new controller. First, we’re adopting haptic feedback to replace the “rumble” technology found in controllers since the 5th generation of consoles. With haptics, you truly feel a broader range of feedback, so crashing into a wall in a race car feels much different than making a tackle on the football field. You can even get a sense for a variety of textures when running through fields of grass or plodding through mud. The second innovation is something we call adaptive triggers, which have been incorporated into the trigger buttons (L2/R2). Developers can program the resistance of the triggers so that you feel the tactile sensation of drawing a bow and arrow or accelerating an off-road vehicle through rocky terrain. In combination with the haptics, this can produce a powerful experience that better simulates various actions. Game creators have started to receive early versions of the new controller, and we can’t wait to see where their imagination goes with these new features at their disposal. While there’s much more to share about PlayStation 5 in the year ahead, we have plenty of blockbuster experiences coming your way on PS4, including Death Stranding, The Last of Us Part II, and Ghost of Tsushima. I’d like to thank all PlayStation fans for continuing the journey with us, as we embark on the future of games. playstation 5ps5 Did you like this? Like this playstation 5ps5 Did you like this? Like this Comments are closed. 247 Comments Loading More Comments Comments are closed. Comments are closed. 247 Comments Loading More Comments 247 Comments 247 Comments 247 Comments Loading More Comments Trending Stories PlayStation Plus Game Catalog for August: Mortal Kombat 1, Marvel’s Spider-Man, Sword of the Sea, Earth Defense Force 6 and more Adam Michel Director, Game Services – Content, Sony Interactive Entertainment Helldivers 2: Into the Unjust launches September 2 Katherine Baskin Social Media and Community Manager, Arrowhead Game Studios Gran Turismo 7 update 1.62 available today Ken Chan Sr Brand Manager, SIE Ready Set Play promotion comes to PlayStation Store Aug 27 Zack Garvey Promotions Proposal Manager, Sony Interactive Welcome PlayStation 5 Pro, the most visually impressive way to play games on PlayStation Hideaki Nishino CEO, Platform Business Group, Sony Interactive Entertainment PlayStation Plus Game Catalog lineup for February: Horizon Forbidden West, The Quarry, Resident Evil 7 biohazard and more Adam Michel Director, Game Services – Content, Sony Interactive Entertainment Celebrating 30 years of PlayStation with a nostalgic look Hideaki Nishino CEO, Platform Business Group, Sony Interactive Entertainment New look for PS5 console this holiday season Sid Shuman (he/him) Senior Director, Sony Interactive Entertainment Content Communications Trending Stories PlayStation Plus Game Catalog for August: Mortal Kombat 1, Marvel’s Spider-Man, Sword of the Sea, Earth Defense Force 6 and more Adam Michel Director, Game Services – Content, Sony Interactive Entertainment Helldivers 2: Into the Unjust launches September 2 Katherine Baskin Social Media and Community Manager, Arrowhead Game Studios Gran Turismo 7 update 1.62 available today Ken Chan Sr Brand Manager, SIE Ready Set Play promotion comes to PlayStation Store Aug 27 Zack Garvey Promotions Proposal Manager, Sony Interactive Welcome PlayStation 5 Pro, the most visually impressive way to play games on PlayStation Hideaki Nishino CEO, Platform Business Group, Sony Interactive Entertainment PlayStation Plus Game Catalog lineup for February: Horizon Forbidden West, The Quarry, Resident Evil 7 biohazard and more Adam Michel Director, Game Services – Content, Sony Interactive Entertainment Celebrating 30 years of PlayStation with a nostalgic look Hideaki Nishino CEO, Platform Business Group, Sony Interactive Entertainment New look for PS5 console this holiday season Sid Shuman (he/him) Senior Director, Sony Interactive Entertainment Content Communications PlayStation Plus Game Catalog for August: Mortal Kombat 1, Marvel’s Spider-Man, Sword of the Sea, Earth Defense Force 6 and more Adam Michel Director, Game Services – Content, Sony Interactive Entertainment PlayStation Plus Game Catalog for August: Mortal Kombat 1, Marvel’s Spider-Man, Sword of the Sea, Earth Defense Force 6 and more Adam Michel Director, Game Services – Content, Sony Interactive Entertainment Adam Michel Director, Game Services – Content, Sony Interactive Entertainment Adam Michel Director, Game Services – Content, Sony Interactive Entertainment Helldivers 2: Into the Unjust launches September 2 Katherine Baskin Social Media and Community Manager, Arrowhead Game Studios Helldivers 2: Into the Unjust launches September 2 Katherine Baskin Social Media and Community Manager, Arrowhead Game Studios Katherine Baskin Social Media and Community Manager, Arrowhead Game Studios Katherine Baskin Social Media and Community Manager, Arrowhead Game Studios Gran Turismo 7 update 1.62 available today Ken Chan Sr Brand Manager, SIE Gran Turismo 7 update 1.62 available today Ken Chan Sr Brand Manager, SIE Ken Chan Sr Brand Manager, SIE Ken Chan Sr Brand Manager, SIE Ready Set Play promotion comes to PlayStation Store Aug 27 Zack Garvey Promotions Proposal Manager, Sony Interactive Ready Set Play promotion comes to PlayStation Store Aug 27 Zack Garvey Promotions Proposal Manager, Sony Interactive Zack Garvey Promotions Proposal Manager, Sony Interactive Zack Garvey Promotions Proposal Manager, Sony Interactive Welcome PlayStation 5 Pro, the most visually impressive way to play games on PlayStation Hideaki Nishino CEO, Platform Business Group, Sony Interactive Entertainment Welcome PlayStation 5 Pro, the most visually impressive way to play games on PlayStation Hideaki Nishino CEO, Platform Business Group, Sony Interactive Entertainment Hideaki Nishino CEO, Platform Business Group, Sony Interactive Entertainment Hideaki Nishino CEO, Platform Business Group, Sony Interactive Entertainment PlayStation Plus Game Catalog lineup for February: Horizon Forbidden West, The Quarry, Resident Evil 7 biohazard and more Adam Michel Director, Game Services – Content, Sony Interactive Entertainment PlayStation Plus Game Catalog lineup for February: Horizon Forbidden West, The Quarry, Resident Evil 7 biohazard and more Adam Michel Director, Game Services – Content, Sony Interactive Entertainment Adam Michel Director, Game Services – Content, Sony Interactive Entertainment Adam Michel Director, Game Services – Content, Sony Interactive Entertainment Celebrating 30 years of PlayStation with a nostalgic look Hideaki Nishino CEO, Platform Business Group, Sony Interactive Entertainment Celebrating 30 years of PlayStation with a nostalgic look Hideaki Nishino CEO, Platform Business Group, Sony Interactive Entertainment Hideaki Nishino CEO, Platform Business Group, Sony Interactive Entertainment Hideaki Nishino CEO, Platform Business Group, Sony Interactive Entertainment New look for PS5 console this holiday season Sid Shuman (he/him) Senior Director, Sony Interactive Entertainment Content Communications New look for PS5 console this holiday season Sid Shuman (he/him) Senior Director, Sony Interactive Entertainment Content Communications Sid Shuman (he/him) Senior Director, Sony Interactive Entertainment Content Communications Sid Shuman (he/him) Senior Director, Sony Interactive Entertainment Content Communications