Source: https://biafran.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/07/program-for-the-day-on-may-30th-2016.pdf
Words: 2307

================================================================================

Biafra Anthem: Land of the Rising Sun Land of rising sun, we love and cherish, Beloved homeland of our brave heroes; We must defend our lives or we shall perish, We shall protect our hearts from all our foes; But if the price is death for all we hold dear, Then let us die without a shred of fear. Hail to Biafra, consecrated nation, O fatherland, this be our solemn pledge: Defending thee shall be a dedication, Spilling our blood we’ll count a privilege; The waving standard which emboldens the free Shall always be our flag of liberty. We shall emerge triumphant from this ordeal, And through the crucible unscathed we’ll pass; When we are poised the wounds of battle to heal, We shall remember those who died in mass; Then shall our trumpets peal the glorious song Of victory we scored o’er might and wrong. Oh God, protect us from the hidden pitfall, Guide all our movements lest we go astray; Give us the strength to heed the humanist call: To give and not to count the cost’ each day; Bless those who rule to serve with resoluteness, To make this clime a land of righteousness. BIAFRA REMEMBRANCE DAY PRAYER Fellow Biafrans; we are gathered here today ubosi Afor 30th May 2016 AD to pay befitting Biafra Memorial Service and Journey of Remembrance to; not only honour our heroes but to ask OKIKE (creation); CHUKWUABIAMA to grant their spirit eternal rest in HIS Kingdom. It is our custom, through the ages, for Biafrans to pay their respect to fellow departed Biafran. Our thoughts and prayers are with all families whose loved ones; Father, Mother, Husband, Wife, Children, unborn children, nursing mothers and many more were killed during the war and being killed, maimed, beheaded, massacred on daily basis by Islamic Jihadist in Nigeria and also all Biafrans who have died fighting for what they believe in. And at this moment, we invite every family and friends to remain coordinated for the memorial service and journey of remembrance. We remember our people who suffered and died so that we could be free and secure may their memory be more than a distant shadow; Major General Johnson Thomas Umunnakwe Aguiyi-Ironsi Col. T. C. Onwuatuegwu Lt. Col. Nicholas Ejike Major Chukwuma Kaduna Nzeogwu Capt. G. N. E. Ugoala Major C. J. Anuforo Major D. O. Okafor 2/Lt. A. D. Mbadiwe Lt. A. D. C. Egbuna Capt. A. L. Orok Capt. A. O. Akpet Major B. E. Nnamani Major Christopher Emelifonwu Using a lighted candle, raise it up facing the east, we say: “For their dreams left unfulfilled and their lives taken too soon away from us and humanity we remember;“ SECOND POST READER: 1. The Souls of the righteous are in the hand of GOD, and there shall be no more torment touching them. 2. In the sight of the unwise they seem to die, and their departure is taken for misery. 3. And their going from us to be utter destruction, but they are in peace. 4. For though they be punished in the sight of men, yet is there hope full of immortality. 5. And having been a little chastened, they shall be greatly rewarded for GOD proved them, and found them worthy for HIMSELF. We remember our brothers and sisters whose sacrifice kept the dream of Biafra based on truth, love and justice alive we remember; Capt. Chukwueke Lt. E. C. N. Achebe 2/Lt. E. Ogbonnaye Lt.Col. G. O. Okonweze Lt. G. O. Mbabie Capt. H. A. Iloputaife Major I. E. Ekanem Lt.Col. I. C. Okoro Capt. I. U. Idika Major J. I. Obienu Major J. O. C. Ihedigbo Using a lighted candle, raise it up facing the east, we say: “May their courage be our inspiration and strength.“ THIRD POST READER: Fellow Biafrans, we are called upon by the most solemn admonition to uncertainty of human life and inevitable termination of all earthly pursuits; for we gather to pay a last farewell to our heroes, the brave Men and Women who died that we may live. These last offices and honor paid to our dead provide us an opportunity to express our sense of loss and to offer a tribute to their memory, while they enable us likewise to bear witness to our belief in the immortality of the soul. For Life cut short and vision unrealized; we remember: Lt. J. D. Ovuezirie Lt. J. U. Ugba Capt. Jonathan Egere Lt. K. Day Waribor Capt. L. C. Dillibe Major Obi Major O. Isong Capt. P. C. Okoye 2/Lt P. K. Onyeneho 2/Lt. P. D. Ekediyo Lt. S. E. Onwukwe Capt. S. E. Mmaduabum Major T. E. Nzegwu Lt. P. O. Ibik Capt. R. Agbazue Lt. P. O. Ibik Capt. R. Agbazue Using a lighted candle, raise it up facing the east, we say: “May their courage be our inspiration and strength.“ FOURT POST READER: In particular they remind us that our lives are to be leaved in accordance with DIVINE providence and ready to lay it down for the course of Biafra and salvation of humanity, that we are diligently to work While it is yet day, so that when the call comes to lay down our tools, we may be found ready to enter into the Kingdom of CHI-UKWU ABIAMA (GOD) where in HIS Light we shall see Light. We remember the fallen of our Biafran Armed services; we remember the victims ofterror and tragedy. We remember the millions of defenseless women, men and childrenbombed in the markets strafed to their death in schools and hospitals by Soviet Migs and piloted by Egyptians; W.O. 1 Elijah Anosike S/Sgt. Ewom Ejiogu W.O. 11 Ndarake Uyah S/Sgt. Davison Njoku S/Sgt. Sylvanus Ezekwu Sgt. Evan Jim Udoh Cpl. Pius Dike Cpl. Michael Akwudike Cpl. Johnson Agwu L/Cpl. Gabriel Okezie Using a lighted candle, raise it up facing the east, we say: “May their courage be our inspiration and strength.“ FIFTH POST READER: While we sorrow for our loss, let us lift up our hearts in thanks giving for their sacrifice, fight well fought, life well spent, and work well done; And let us humbly pray that we may be given grace, strength and wisdom to enable us perform our duty in partway of Biafra quest and of life’s service. May the darkness of their loss not obscure the light of our peace. They were in love with the land of Biafra and were in love with life. For the agony, the tears, the mothers and the fathers, for the children who were and the children yet to be. We remember; L/Cpl. David Ishikwuma Pt. Fidelis Onyekwe Pt. Mba Iroha Sgt. Celestine Okafor L/Cpl. William Olani Pt. Innocent L/Cpl. Josiah Onyejiaka W.O. 1 Joseph Mba L/Cpl. Mathew Njumike S/Sgt. Joseph Ibekwe Using a lighted candle, raise it up facing the east, we say: “May their courage be our inspiration and strength.“ SIXTH POST READER: By the Light of divine countenance we shall then pass without fear in the face of our adversaries through the valley of the shadow, and at last shall receive the reward of true virtue, of truth and honesty and acquire the possession of Biafra land and of an immortal inheritance. For death cannot keep us from the face of CHI-UKWU ABIAMA(GOD), Whose strong grip will free us from Nigeria bondage and lift us out of shadows into the Light that cannot die. In the numberless towns and villages in nigeria and the rest of africa and elsewhere in europe and asia where we have lived in too many of them we have endured cruel suffering died in the hands of our fellow human beings just because of who we are we remember: S/Sgt. Afogboro S/Sgt. Peter Bassey Sgt. Robert Bassey Sgt. Michael Uche Sgt. Boniface Njemanze Cpl. Timothy Isienyi Cpl. Sunday Amaoli Cpl. Anthony Amaoli Cpl. Paul Udakwu Cpl. Festus Nwaodika Using a lighted candle, raise it up facing the east, we say: “Some we have forgotten. Others are sealed in our memory a wound that does not heal. May their courage be our inspiration and strength.“ SEVENTH POST READER: Generations of victims and martyrs; still their blood cries out from the earth: What can we say? What can we do? How do we bear the unbearable, or accept what life hasfor our people? We know that all that was born must die, but how do we compare the slow passage of time with the callous slaughter and the starvation of the millions of innocent cut off before their time. They lived with faith and hope .Not all but most. And surely most died with faith in God Chukwu Abiama, in life, in the goodness that even flames cannot destroy May we find a way to increase the strength of that faith, that trust, that sure sense that life and soul endure beyond this body's death. We remember; Cpl. William Agbata Cpl. Okorie Agwu Cpl. Wilfred Azubuike Cpl. Reginald Green Cpl. Joseph Adaka L/Cpl. Silas Uzomba LCpl. Maurice Ibekwe Pt. Joseph Ibe Pt. Conelius Uwuoha Pt. John Ekejuba Using a lighted candle, raise it up facing the east, we say: “May their courage be our inspiration and strength.“ Almighty and Most Merciful CHUKWUABIAMA, OKIKE (GOD); in WHOM we live and move and have our being, and before WHOM all men must hereafter appear to render an account of the deeds done in the body, we do most earnestly beseech THEE, to impress upon our minds the solemnities and infamy of this day. May we ever remember that in the midst of life we are in death, and so live and act our separate parts that we may have no cause for sorrow or fear when the hour of departure is at hand. And on this we commit our Being in pursuit of Biafra Nation that the Souls of those who have died may find rest in YOUR PRESENCE. DECLARATION OF THE NATION OF BIAFRA: MAY 30 1967 Fellow countrymen and women, you, the people of Eastern Nigeria: Conscious of the supreme authority of Almighty God over all mankind, of your duty to yourselves and posterity; Aware that you can no longer be protected in your lives and in your property by any Government based outside Eastern Nigeria; Believing that you are born free and have certain inalienable rights which can best be preserved by yourselves. Unwilling to be unfree partners in any association of a political or economic nature; Rejecting the authority of any person or persons other than the Military Government of Eastern Nigeria to make any imposition of whatever kind or nature upon you; Determined to dissolve all political and other ties between you and the former Federal Republic of Nigeria; Prepared to enter into such association, treaty or alliance with any sovereign state within the former Federal Republic of Nigeria and elsewhere on such terms and conditions as best to subserve your common good; Affirming your trust and confidence in me; Having mandated me to proclaim on your behalf, and in your name, that Eastern Nigeria be a sovereign independent Republic, Now, therefore, I, Lieutenant-Colonel Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu, Military Governor of Eastern Nigeria, by virtue of the authority, and pursuant to the principles, recited above, do hereby solemnly proclaim that the territory and region known as and called Eastern Nigeria together with her continental shelf and territorial waters shall henceforth be an independent sovereign state of the name and title of "The Republic of Biafra". And I do declare that- i. all political ties between us and the Federal Republic of Nigeria are hereby totally dissolved; ii. all subsisting contractual obligations entered into by the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria or by any person, authority or organization or government acting on its behalf, with any person, authority or organization operating, or relating to any matter or thing, within the Republic of Biafra, shall henceforth be deemed to be entered into with the Military Governor of the Republic of Biafra for and on behalf of the Government and people of the republic of Biafra, and the covenants thereof shall, subject to this Declaration, be performed by the parties according to their tenor; iii. all subsisting international treaties and obligations made on behalf of eastern Nigeria by the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, shall be honoured and respected; iv. Eastern Nigeria's due share of all subsisting international debits and obligations entered into by the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria on behalf of the Federation of Nigeria shall be honoured and respected; v. steps will be taken to open discussions of the question of Eastern Nigeria's due share of the assets of the Federation of Nigeria and personal properties of the citizens of Biafra throughout the Federation of Nigeria; vi. the rights, privileges, pensions, etc. of all personnel of the Public Services, the Armed Forces and the Police now serving in any capacity within the Republic of Biafra, are hereby guaranteed; vii. we shall keep the door open for association with, and would welcome, any sovereign unit or units in the former Federation of Nigeria or in any other parts of Africa desirous of association with us for the purposes of running a common services organization and for the establishment of economic ties; viii. we shall protect the lives and property of all foreigners residing in Biafra; we shall extend the hand of friendship to those nations who respect our sovereignty, and shall repell any interference in our internal affairs; ix. we shall faithfully adhere to the charter of the Organization of African Unity and of the United Nations Organization; x. It is our intention to remain a member of the British Commonwealth of Nations in our right as a sovereign, independent nation. Long live the Republic of Biafra! And may God protect all who live in her!