Source: https://adventureswithpunzelbelle.wordpress.com/2018/02/16/a-wonderful-exciting-life/
Title: A Wonderful, Exciting Life – Adventure In the Great Wide Somewhere
Words: 2651

================================================================================

February 16, 2018January 17, 2021 PunzelBelle28 Hey there, hi there, ho there… Today in Disney History: February 15, 1899 – Lillian Marie Bounds was born in Lapwai, Idaho, on the Nez Perce Indian Reservation. Lillian was the youngest of ten children born to Willard and Jeanette “Nettie” (Short) Bounds. Her father, Willard, was born in Willamette Valley, Oregon, and moved to Lapwai to work for the U. S. Government as a federal marshal on the Indian reservation, and he also worked as the town blacksmith and machinist. Her father died on July 25, 1916 when Lilly was only seventeen years old, leaving the already financially-burdened family without their primary breadwinner. After graduating high school, Lillian moved with her mother Nettie to Lewiston, Idaho, where she completed a year-long course of business school. In 1923, Lillian and her mother moved to Los Angeles, California to live with her sister, Hazel Bounds Sewell and her family. Nancy Bounds (1854–1935), Willard Bounds (1854-1916), Bertha Bounds (1877–1959), and Jeanette “Nettie” (Short) Bounds (1854–1931), about 1915. Jeanette “Nettie” Bounds, seated. L to R: Lillian Bounds, Hazel Bounds, Ruth Bounds, Rachel King, Bertha Bounds, Nancy King. About 1912. As Disney legend tells it, Kathleen Dollard worked at the fledgling Disney Brothers studio in ink and paint, and asked Kathleen if she knew of anyone else that could help. She mentioned she knew “a stenographer who’s not doing anything at the moment.” That stenographer was Lillian Bounds. Another legend is that Lillian was given a warning by Kathleen: “I have a job for you, but I am telling you about it on one condition: don’t marry the boss.” Lillian was hired on January 19, 1924 to work in the ink and paint department (which consisted of herself and Kathleen) for fifteen dollars a week. According to the Walt Disney Family Museum: “Walt would frequently offer to drive Lillian and Kathleen, the other ink-and-paint girl, to their homes in the studio’s Ford roundabout (also called a runner) during the early days of the Studio. As the story goes, Walt always dropped off Lillian last, even if her home was closer. The old Ford had one seat and an open back. Lillian took a small amount of pride that Walt wanted to spend more time with her.” “I think my dad fell in love with her almost immediately… she was an independent little lady.” Diane Disney Miller According to legend, Walt’s proposal to Lilly was this: “I’ve got $75; shall I buy a new car or a wedding ring?” Lillian and Walt Disney married on July 13, 1925, in the house of Lillian’s brother, Sydney Bounds, the Fire Chief of Lewington, Idaho by Reverend D.J.W. Somerville, Rector Protestant Episcopal Church of the Nativity with Hazel Sewell and Sydney Bounds as witnesses. Walt’s parents, Elias and Flora Disney, could not attend, though Walt’s brother, Roy O. Disney, did. As Lillian’s own father was deceased, her uncle gave the bride away. She wore a dress which she had made herself. “I was not very artistic at all, and I was not very good at inking and painting. Later, Walt made me his secretary, but I made too many mistakes when he was dictating. He always said I was so bad that he had to marry me.” Lillian Disney Walt Disney and Lillian Bounds on their wedding day, July 13, 1925 in Lewiston, Idaho. Lillian’s sister, Hazel Bounds Sewell, is on the far left next to Walt. Lillian is credited with giving Mickey Mouse his name. As the story goes, during a train trip from New York to California in 1928, Walt showed a drawing of the cartoon mouse to his wife and told her that he was going to name it “Mortimer Mouse.” ”Not Mortimer,” said Lillian. ”It’s too formal. How about Mickey?” Lillian and Walt had two daughters, Diane Marie, and Sharon Mae. Through Diane, the Disney’s had seven grandchildren, and through Sharon, three. Lillian was Walt’s sounding board, travel companion, and a conservative balance to Walt’s daring – but also indulged his creativity. Outside of the Disney Brothers Studio on Kingswell Ave. in Los Angeles in 1925. Left to right: Lillian, Walt, Ruth Disney, Roy Disney, Edna Francis Disney. Lillian and Walt with Diane L to R: (Walt’s secretary), Sharon Disney, Diane Disney, Walt, Lillian, 1963. Walt and Lillian with daughters Sharon, Diane, Diane’s husband and their children. Walt and his grandson, on the grounds behind Sleeping Beauty’s Castle in Disneyland. circa 1955: EXCLUSIVE Portrait of American animator Walt Disney (1901 – 1966) and his wife, Lillian, smiling while posing outdoors in front of shrubs at their home. Lillian holds a red rose. (Photo by Gene Lester/Getty Images) Lillian was one of the primary sources of funding for the California Institute of the Arts, which counts among its many venerated alumni Brad Bird, Pete Docter, Tony Anselmo, Lauren Faust, Butch Hartman, Kirk Wise, Tim Burton, and Craig McCracken. In 1987, Lillian gifted $50 million dollars to create the Walt Disney Concert Hall in Los Angeles, which after several delays, opened in 2003. After Walt’s death on December 15, 1966, the usually shy and reserved Lillian stepped into the spotlight to ensure the fulfillment of her late husband’s dreams. She was present at the dedications of both the Magic Kingdom and EPCOT in Florida. “I think Walt would have approved,” she said to Roy and those who helped realize her husband’s dream. Lillian did remarry, in 1969, to John L. Truyens from May 1969 until his death in February 1981. Lillian suffered a stroke on December 15, 1997, 31 years to the day after the death of her husband, and passed away the following day. She was 98. “We shared a wonderful, exciting life, and we loved every minute of it. He was a wonderful husband to me and a wonderful and joyful father and grandfather.” Lillian Disney Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Like Loading. Related Hey there, hi there, ho there… Today in Disney History: February 15, 1899 – Lillian Marie Bounds was born in Lapwai, Idaho, on the Nez Perce Indian Reservation. Lillian was the youngest of ten children born to Willard and Jeanette “Nettie” (Short) Bounds. Her father, Willard, was born in Willamette Valley, Oregon, and moved to Lapwai to work for the U. S. Government as a federal marshal on the Indian reservation, and he also worked as the town blacksmith and machinist. Her father died on July 25, 1916 when Lilly was only seventeen years old, leaving the already financially-burdened family without their primary breadwinner. After graduating high school, Lillian moved with her mother Nettie to Lewiston, Idaho, where she completed a year-long course of business school. In 1923, Lillian and her mother moved to Los Angeles, California to live with her sister, Hazel Bounds Sewell and her family. Nancy Bounds (1854–1935), Willard Bounds (1854-1916), Bertha Bounds (1877–1959), and Jeanette “Nettie” (Short) Bounds (1854–1931), about 1915. Jeanette “Nettie” Bounds, seated. L to R: Lillian Bounds, Hazel Bounds, Ruth Bounds, Rachel King, Bertha Bounds, Nancy King. About 1912. Nancy Bounds (1854–1935), Willard Bounds (1854-1916), Bertha Bounds (1877–1959), and Jeanette “Nettie” (Short) Bounds (1854–1931), about 1915. Jeanette “Nettie” Bounds, seated. L to R: Lillian Bounds, Hazel Bounds, Ruth Bounds, Rachel King, Bertha Bounds, Nancy King. About 1912. Nancy Bounds (1854–1935), Willard Bounds (1854-1916), Bertha Bounds (1877–1959), and Jeanette “Nettie” (Short) Bounds (1854–1931), about 1915. Nancy Bounds (1854–1935), Willard Bounds (1854-1916), Bertha Bounds (1877–1959), and Jeanette “Nettie” (Short) Bounds (1854–1931), about 1915. Nancy Bounds (1854–1935), Willard Bounds (1854-1916), Bertha Bounds (1877–1959), and Jeanette “Nettie” (Short) Bounds (1854–1931), about 1915. Jeanette “Nettie” Bounds, seated. L to R: Lillian Bounds, Hazel Bounds, Ruth Bounds, Rachel King, Bertha Bounds, Nancy King. About 1912. Jeanette “Nettie” Bounds, seated. L to R: Lillian Bounds, Hazel Bounds, Ruth Bounds, Rachel King, Bertha Bounds, Nancy King. About 1912. Jeanette “Nettie” Bounds, seated. L to R: Lillian Bounds, Hazel Bounds, Ruth Bounds, Rachel King, Bertha Bounds, Nancy King. About 1912. As Disney legend tells it, Kathleen Dollard worked at the fledgling Disney Brothers studio in ink and paint, and asked Kathleen if she knew of anyone else that could help. She mentioned she knew “a stenographer who’s not doing anything at the moment.” That stenographer was Lillian Bounds. Another legend is that Lillian was given a warning by Kathleen: “I have a job for you, but I am telling you about it on one condition: don’t marry the boss.” Lillian was hired on January 19, 1924 to work in the ink and paint department (which consisted of herself and Kathleen) for fifteen dollars a week. According to the Walt Disney Family Museum: “Walt would frequently offer to drive Lillian and Kathleen, the other ink-and-paint girl, to their homes in the studio’s Ford roundabout (also called a runner) during the early days of the Studio. As the story goes, Walt always dropped off Lillian last, even if her home was closer. The old Ford had one seat and an open back. Lillian took a small amount of pride that Walt wanted to spend more time with her.” “I think my dad fell in love with her almost immediately… she was an independent little lady.” Diane Disney Miller According to legend, Walt’s proposal to Lilly was this: “I’ve got $75; shall I buy a new car or a wedding ring?” Lillian and Walt Disney married on July 13, 1925, in the house of Lillian’s brother, Sydney Bounds, the Fire Chief of Lewington, Idaho by Reverend D.J.W. Somerville, Rector Protestant Episcopal Church of the Nativity with Hazel Sewell and Sydney Bounds as witnesses. Walt’s parents, Elias and Flora Disney, could not attend, though Walt’s brother, Roy O. Disney, did. As Lillian’s own father was deceased, her uncle gave the bride away. She wore a dress which she had made herself. “I was not very artistic at all, and I was not very good at inking and painting. Later, Walt made me his secretary, but I made too many mistakes when he was dictating. He always said I was so bad that he had to marry me.” Lillian Disney Lillian is credited with giving Mickey Mouse his name. As the story goes, during a train trip from New York to California in 1928, Walt showed a drawing of the cartoon mouse to his wife and told her that he was going to name it “Mortimer Mouse.” ”Not Mortimer,” said Lillian. ”It’s too formal. How about Mickey?” Lillian and Walt had two daughters, Diane Marie, and Sharon Mae. Through Diane, the Disney’s had seven grandchildren, and through Sharon, three. Lillian was Walt’s sounding board, travel companion, and a conservative balance to Walt’s daring – but also indulged his creativity. Outside of the Disney Brothers Studio on Kingswell Ave. in Los Angeles in 1925. Left to right: Lillian, Walt, Ruth Disney, Roy Disney, Edna Francis Disney. Lillian and Walt with Diane L to R: (Walt’s secretary), Sharon Disney, Diane Disney, Walt, Lillian, 1963. Walt and Lillian with daughters Sharon, Diane, Diane’s husband and their children. Walt and his grandson, on the grounds behind Sleeping Beauty’s Castle in Disneyland. circa 1955: EXCLUSIVE Portrait of American animator Walt Disney (1901 – 1966) and his wife, Lillian, smiling while posing outdoors in front of shrubs at their home. Lillian holds a red rose. (Photo by Gene Lester/Getty Images) Outside of the Disney Brothers Studio on Kingswell Ave. in Los Angeles in 1925. Left to right: Lillian, Walt, Ruth Disney, Roy Disney, Edna Francis Disney. Outside of the Disney Brothers Studio on Kingswell Ave. in Los Angeles in 1925. Left to right: Lillian, Walt, Ruth Disney, Roy Disney, Edna Francis Disney. Outside of the Disney Brothers Studio on Kingswell Ave. in Los Angeles in 1925. Left to right: Lillian, Walt, Ruth Disney, Roy Disney, Edna Francis Disney. Outside of the Disney Brothers Studio on Kingswell Ave. in Los Angeles in 1925. Left to right: Lillian, Walt, Ruth Disney, Roy Disney, Edna Francis Disney. Lillian and Walt with Diane L to R: (Walt’s secretary), Sharon Disney, Diane Disney, Walt, Lillian, 1963. Lillian and Walt with Diane Lillian and Walt with Diane Lillian and Walt with Diane L to R: (Walt’s secretary), Sharon Disney, Diane Disney, Walt, Lillian, 1963. L to R: (Walt’s secretary), Sharon Disney, Diane Disney, Walt, Lillian, 1963. L to R: (Walt’s secretary), Sharon Disney, Diane Disney, Walt, Lillian, 1963. Walt and Lillian with daughters Sharon, Diane, Diane’s husband and their children. Walt and his grandson, on the grounds behind Sleeping Beauty’s Castle in Disneyland. Walt and Lillian with daughters Sharon, Diane, Diane’s husband and their children. Walt and Lillian with daughters Sharon, Diane, Diane’s husband and their children. Walt and Lillian with daughters Sharon, Diane, Diane’s husband and their children. Walt and his grandson, on the grounds behind Sleeping Beauty’s Castle in Disneyland. Walt and his grandson, on the grounds behind Sleeping Beauty’s Castle in Disneyland. Walt and his grandson, on the grounds behind Sleeping Beauty’s Castle in Disneyland. circa 1955: EXCLUSIVE Portrait of American animator Walt Disney (1901 – 1966) and his wife, Lillian, smiling while posing outdoors in front of shrubs at their home. Lillian holds a red rose. (Photo by Gene Lester/Getty Images) circa 1955: EXCLUSIVE Portrait of American animator Walt Disney (1901 – 1966) and his wife, Lillian, smiling while posing outdoors in front of shrubs at their home. Lillian holds a red rose. (Photo by Gene Lester/Getty Images) circa 1955: EXCLUSIVE Portrait of American animator Walt Disney (1901 – 1966) and his wife, Lillian, smiling while posing outdoors in front of shrubs at their home. Lillian holds a red rose. (Photo by Gene Lester/Getty Images) circa 1955: EXCLUSIVE Portrait of American animator Walt Disney (1901 – 1966) and his wife, Lillian, smiling while posing outdoors in front of shrubs at their home. Lillian holds a red rose. (Photo by Gene Lester/Getty Images) Lillian was one of the primary sources of funding for the California Institute of the Arts, which counts among its many venerated alumni Brad Bird, Pete Docter, Tony Anselmo, Lauren Faust, Butch Hartman, Kirk Wise, Tim Burton, and Craig McCracken. In 1987, Lillian gifted $50 million dollars to create the Walt Disney Concert Hall in Los Angeles, which after several delays, opened in 2003. After Walt’s death on December 15, 1966, the usually shy and reserved Lillian stepped into the spotlight to ensure the fulfillment of her late husband’s dreams. She was present at the dedications of both the Magic Kingdom and EPCOT in Florida. “I think Walt would have approved,” she said to Roy and those who helped realize her husband’s dream. Lillian did remarry, in 1969, to John L. Truyens from May 1969 until his death in February 1981. Lillian suffered a stroke on December 15, 1997, 31 years to the day after the death of her husband, and passed away the following day. She was 98. “We shared a wonderful, exciting life, and we loved every minute of it. He was a wonderful husband to me and a wonderful and joyful father and grandfather.” Lillian Disney Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Like Loading. Related Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Like Loading. Like Loading. Leave a comment Cancel reply Δ Leave a comment Cancel reply Δ Leave a comment Cancel reply