Source: https://annemarieiam.fandom.com/wiki/Therapy_(album)
Title: Therapy (album) | The Anne-Marie Wiki | Fandom
Words: 2703

================================================================================

in: Albums Therapy (album) Sign in to edit History Purge Talk (0) Therapy (album) Sign in to edit History Purge Talk (0) Therapy (album) Therapy (album) Sign in to edit History Purge Talk (0) History Purge Talk (0) History Purge Talk (0) This page uses Creative Commons Licensed content from Wikipedia (view authors). Therapy is the studio album by Anne-Marie. It was released on 23 July 2021, through Major Tom's and Asylum Records. The album serves as a follow up to her debut Speak Your Mind, and was preceded by four singles: "Don't Play", "Way Too Long", "Our Song", and "Kiss My (Uh Oh)". Background[] Planning for Anne-Marie's second album began in 2019; in an interview with Music Week in March of that year, she provided information on her upcoming second studio album, stating "I love the studio. I was able to get in there and have some sort of therapy with my own brain for a week and that's going towards the next album". She further commented that "the first album was made up of so many songs that people had heard for years and that's amazing. But for me as a creative person, I'm writing something new all the time and all I want to do is put it out straight away. That wasn't the way it happened with [the debut] album so, for this next one, I'm hoping to be more active on writing and put something out straight away that's fresh and no one's heard before." Through 2020, Anne-Marie released the standalone singles "Birthday", "Her", "To Be Young" featuring American rapper Doja Cat and "Problems". On 15 January 2021, Anne-Marie released the lead single of Therapy "Don't Play" in collaboration with English rapper KSI and English DJ, Digital Farm Animals. On 9 April 2021, the second single "Way Too Long" was released with Nathan Dawe and MoStack. On 21 May 2021, the third single "Our Song", a collaboration with Irish singer-songwriter Niall Horan, was released. On that date, Anne-Marie announced the title, cover art, and release date of Therapy. She later announced that she will embark on the Dysfunctional Tour in 2022, and Therapy: The Live Experience on 7 August 2021 in support of the album. On July 6, 2021, Anne-Marie launched a website via Twitter that enlisted the help of her fans/followers in determining the track-listing for the album, with new ones appearing on a daily basis. On July 7, 2021, random followers received DMs with one of two song snippets and parts of the title. On July 8, 2021, the track "Kiss My (Uh-Oh)" with British girlband Little Mix was revealed. Lumidee's "Never Leave You (Uh Oooh, Uh Oooh)" is sampled in the song. The song was announced as the album's fourth single on July 9, 2021 along with its release date being 23 July 2021. Track Listing[] Standard edition No. Title Writer(s) Producer(s) Length 1. x2 Anne-Marie Nicholson, Rachel Keen, Fred Ball, Peter Rycroft Ball, Lostboy, Mojam, Cameron Gower Poole 2:46 2. Don't Play (with KSI & Digital Farm Animals) Nicholson, Olajide Olatunji, Nicholas Gale, Samuel Gumbley, Richard Boardman, Pablo Bowman, Mustafa Omer, Andrew Murray, James Murray Digital Farm Animals, Mojam 3:09 3. Kiss My (Uh Oh) (with Little Mix) Nicholson, Taylor Upsahl, Camille Purcell, Pete Nappi, Jacob Banfield Mojam, Nappi, Poole, Raphaella, Lewis Thompson 2:57 4. Who I Am Nicholson, Warren Felder, Sean Douglas, Alex Niceforo, Keith Sorrells Oak, Alex Nice, Sorrells, Poole 2:57 5. Our Song (with Niall Horan) Nicholson, Horan, Thomas Barnes, Peter Kelleher, Benjamin Kohn, Philip Plested TMS, Poole 2:44 6. Way Too Long (with Nathan Dawe & Mostack) Nicholson, Dawe, Montell Daley, Tre Jean-Marie, Daniel Traynor, Uzoechi Emenike, Oladayo Olatunji, Michael Orabiyi, Ryan Campbell Dawe, Jean-Marie, Grades, Sire Noah, Poole 2:30 7. Breathing Nicholson, Keen, Ball Ball, Poole 3:24 8. Unlovable (with Rudimental) Nicholson, Purcell, Emenike, Dawe, Jean-Marie Jean-Marie, Rudimental, Mojam, Poole 2:23 9. Beautiful Ed Sheeran, Max Martin, Elvira Anderfjärd Anderfjärd, Poole 3:15 10. Tell Your Girlfriend Nicholson, Brittany Amaradio, Blake Slatkin Slatkin, Poole 2:15 11. Better Not Together Nicholson, Purcell, Emenike, Jean-Marie, Dawe Mojam, Popscar, Poole 3:09 12. Therapy Nicholson, Barnes, Kelleher, Kohn, Plested TMS, Aod 2:46 Japanese edition bonus tracks No. Title Writer(s) Producer(s) Length 13. Birthday Nicholson, Amaradio, Felder, Sorrells Oak, Nice, Sorrells 3:01 14. To Be Young (featuring Doja Cat) Nicholson, Amala Dlamini, Louis Bell, Teo Halm, Amaradio Bell, Halm 3:24 15. Don"t Play (Nathan Dawe Remix) (with KSI and Digital Farm Animals) Nicholson, Olajide Olatunji, Gale, Gumbley, Boardman, Bowman, Omer, A. Murray, J. Murray Digital Farm Animals, Mojam 3:18 16 Bedroom (JJ Lin featuring Anne-Marie) Nicholson, Barnes, Kelleher, Purcell, Kohn TMS, Chris Bishop 3:24 This page uses Creative Commons Licensed content from Wikipedia (view authors). Therapy is the studio album by Anne-Marie. It was released on 23 July 2021, through Major Tom's and Asylum Records. The album serves as a follow up to her debut Speak Your Mind, and was preceded by four singles: "Don't Play", "Way Too Long", "Our Song", and "Kiss My (Uh Oh)". Background[] Planning for Anne-Marie's second album began in 2019; in an interview with Music Week in March of that year, she provided information on her upcoming second studio album, stating "I love the studio. I was able to get in there and have some sort of therapy with my own brain for a week and that's going towards the next album". She further commented that "the first album was made up of so many songs that people had heard for years and that's amazing. But for me as a creative person, I'm writing something new all the time and all I want to do is put it out straight away. That wasn't the way it happened with [the debut] album so, for this next one, I'm hoping to be more active on writing and put something out straight away that's fresh and no one's heard before." Through 2020, Anne-Marie released the standalone singles "Birthday", "Her", "To Be Young" featuring American rapper Doja Cat and "Problems". On 15 January 2021, Anne-Marie released the lead single of Therapy "Don't Play" in collaboration with English rapper KSI and English DJ, Digital Farm Animals. On 9 April 2021, the second single "Way Too Long" was released with Nathan Dawe and MoStack. On 21 May 2021, the third single "Our Song", a collaboration with Irish singer-songwriter Niall Horan, was released. On that date, Anne-Marie announced the title, cover art, and release date of Therapy. She later announced that she will embark on the Dysfunctional Tour in 2022, and Therapy: The Live Experience on 7 August 2021 in support of the album. On July 6, 2021, Anne-Marie launched a website via Twitter that enlisted the help of her fans/followers in determining the track-listing for the album, with new ones appearing on a daily basis. On July 7, 2021, random followers received DMs with one of two song snippets and parts of the title. On July 8, 2021, the track "Kiss My (Uh-Oh)" with British girlband Little Mix was revealed. Lumidee's "Never Leave You (Uh Oooh, Uh Oooh)" is sampled in the song. The song was announced as the album's fourth single on July 9, 2021 along with its release date being 23 July 2021. Track Listing[] Standard edition No. Title Writer(s) Producer(s) Length 1. x2 Anne-Marie Nicholson, Rachel Keen, Fred Ball, Peter Rycroft Ball, Lostboy, Mojam, Cameron Gower Poole 2:46 2. Don't Play (with KSI & Digital Farm Animals) Nicholson, Olajide Olatunji, Nicholas Gale, Samuel Gumbley, Richard Boardman, Pablo Bowman, Mustafa Omer, Andrew Murray, James Murray Digital Farm Animals, Mojam 3:09 3. Kiss My (Uh Oh) (with Little Mix) Nicholson, Taylor Upsahl, Camille Purcell, Pete Nappi, Jacob Banfield Mojam, Nappi, Poole, Raphaella, Lewis Thompson 2:57 4. Who I Am Nicholson, Warren Felder, Sean Douglas, Alex Niceforo, Keith Sorrells Oak, Alex Nice, Sorrells, Poole 2:57 5. Our Song (with Niall Horan) Nicholson, Horan, Thomas Barnes, Peter Kelleher, Benjamin Kohn, Philip Plested TMS, Poole 2:44 6. Way Too Long (with Nathan Dawe & Mostack) Nicholson, Dawe, Montell Daley, Tre Jean-Marie, Daniel Traynor, Uzoechi Emenike, Oladayo Olatunji, Michael Orabiyi, Ryan Campbell Dawe, Jean-Marie, Grades, Sire Noah, Poole 2:30 7. Breathing Nicholson, Keen, Ball Ball, Poole 3:24 8. Unlovable (with Rudimental) Nicholson, Purcell, Emenike, Dawe, Jean-Marie Jean-Marie, Rudimental, Mojam, Poole 2:23 9. Beautiful Ed Sheeran, Max Martin, Elvira Anderfjärd Anderfjärd, Poole 3:15 10. Tell Your Girlfriend Nicholson, Brittany Amaradio, Blake Slatkin Slatkin, Poole 2:15 11. Better Not Together Nicholson, Purcell, Emenike, Jean-Marie, Dawe Mojam, Popscar, Poole 3:09 12. Therapy Nicholson, Barnes, Kelleher, Kohn, Plested TMS, Aod 2:46 Japanese edition bonus tracks No. Title Writer(s) Producer(s) Length 13. Birthday Nicholson, Amaradio, Felder, Sorrells Oak, Nice, Sorrells 3:01 14. To Be Young (featuring Doja Cat) Nicholson, Amala Dlamini, Louis Bell, Teo Halm, Amaradio Bell, Halm 3:24 15. Don"t Play (Nathan Dawe Remix) (with KSI and Digital Farm Animals) Nicholson, Olajide Olatunji, Gale, Gumbley, Boardman, Bowman, Omer, A. Murray, J. Murray Digital Farm Animals, Mojam 3:18 16 Bedroom (JJ Lin featuring Anne-Marie) Nicholson, Barnes, Kelleher, Purcell, Kohn TMS, Chris Bishop 3:24 This page uses Creative Commons Licensed content from Wikipedia (view authors). Therapy is the studio album by Anne-Marie. It was released on 23 July 2021, through Major Tom's and Asylum Records. The album serves as a follow up to her debut Speak Your Mind, and was preceded by four singles: "Don't Play", "Way Too Long", "Our Song", and "Kiss My (Uh Oh)". Background[] Planning for Anne-Marie's second album began in 2019; in an interview with Music Week in March of that year, she provided information on her upcoming second studio album, stating "I love the studio. I was able to get in there and have some sort of therapy with my own brain for a week and that's going towards the next album". She further commented that "the first album was made up of so many songs that people had heard for years and that's amazing. But for me as a creative person, I'm writing something new all the time and all I want to do is put it out straight away. That wasn't the way it happened with [the debut] album so, for this next one, I'm hoping to be more active on writing and put something out straight away that's fresh and no one's heard before." Through 2020, Anne-Marie released the standalone singles "Birthday", "Her", "To Be Young" featuring American rapper Doja Cat and "Problems". On 15 January 2021, Anne-Marie released the lead single of Therapy "Don't Play" in collaboration with English rapper KSI and English DJ, Digital Farm Animals. On 9 April 2021, the second single "Way Too Long" was released with Nathan Dawe and MoStack. On 21 May 2021, the third single "Our Song", a collaboration with Irish singer-songwriter Niall Horan, was released. On that date, Anne-Marie announced the title, cover art, and release date of Therapy. She later announced that she will embark on the Dysfunctional Tour in 2022, and Therapy: The Live Experience on 7 August 2021 in support of the album. On July 6, 2021, Anne-Marie launched a website via Twitter that enlisted the help of her fans/followers in determining the track-listing for the album, with new ones appearing on a daily basis. On July 7, 2021, random followers received DMs with one of two song snippets and parts of the title. On July 8, 2021, the track "Kiss My (Uh-Oh)" with British girlband Little Mix was revealed. Lumidee's "Never Leave You (Uh Oooh, Uh Oooh)" is sampled in the song. The song was announced as the album's fourth single on July 9, 2021 along with its release date being 23 July 2021. Track Listing[] Standard edition No. Title Writer(s) Producer(s) Length 1. x2 Anne-Marie Nicholson, Rachel Keen, Fred Ball, Peter Rycroft Ball, Lostboy, Mojam, Cameron Gower Poole 2:46 2. Don't Play (with KSI & Digital Farm Animals) Nicholson, Olajide Olatunji, Nicholas Gale, Samuel Gumbley, Richard Boardman, Pablo Bowman, Mustafa Omer, Andrew Murray, James Murray Digital Farm Animals, Mojam 3:09 3. Kiss My (Uh Oh) (with Little Mix) Nicholson, Taylor Upsahl, Camille Purcell, Pete Nappi, Jacob Banfield Mojam, Nappi, Poole, Raphaella, Lewis Thompson 2:57 4. Who I Am Nicholson, Warren Felder, Sean Douglas, Alex Niceforo, Keith Sorrells Oak, Alex Nice, Sorrells, Poole 2:57 5. Our Song (with Niall Horan) Nicholson, Horan, Thomas Barnes, Peter Kelleher, Benjamin Kohn, Philip Plested TMS, Poole 2:44 6. Way Too Long (with Nathan Dawe & Mostack) Nicholson, Dawe, Montell Daley, Tre Jean-Marie, Daniel Traynor, Uzoechi Emenike, Oladayo Olatunji, Michael Orabiyi, Ryan Campbell Dawe, Jean-Marie, Grades, Sire Noah, Poole 2:30 7. Breathing Nicholson, Keen, Ball Ball, Poole 3:24 8. Unlovable (with Rudimental) Nicholson, Purcell, Emenike, Dawe, Jean-Marie Jean-Marie, Rudimental, Mojam, Poole 2:23 9. Beautiful Ed Sheeran, Max Martin, Elvira Anderfjärd Anderfjärd, Poole 3:15 10. Tell Your Girlfriend Nicholson, Brittany Amaradio, Blake Slatkin Slatkin, Poole 2:15 11. Better Not Together Nicholson, Purcell, Emenike, Jean-Marie, Dawe Mojam, Popscar, Poole 3:09 12. Therapy Nicholson, Barnes, Kelleher, Kohn, Plested TMS, Aod 2:46 Japanese edition bonus tracks No. Title Writer(s) Producer(s) Length 13. Birthday Nicholson, Amaradio, Felder, Sorrells Oak, Nice, Sorrells 3:01 14. To Be Young (featuring Doja Cat) Nicholson, Amala Dlamini, Louis Bell, Teo Halm, Amaradio Bell, Halm 3:24 15. Don"t Play (Nathan Dawe Remix) (with KSI and Digital Farm Animals) Nicholson, Olajide Olatunji, Gale, Gumbley, Boardman, Bowman, Omer, A. Murray, J. Murray Digital Farm Animals, Mojam 3:18 16 Bedroom (JJ Lin featuring Anne-Marie) Nicholson, Barnes, Kelleher, Purcell, Kohn TMS, Chris Bishop 3:24 Therapy is the studio album by Anne-Marie. It was released on 23 July 2021, through Major Tom's and Asylum Records. The album serves as a follow up to her debut Speak Your Mind, and was preceded by four singles: "Don't Play", "Way Too Long", "Our Song", and "Kiss My (Uh Oh)". Background[] Planning for Anne-Marie's second album began in 2019; in an interview with Music Week in March of that year, she provided information on her upcoming second studio album, stating "I love the studio. I was able to get in there and have some sort of therapy with my own brain for a week and that's going towards the next album". She further commented that "the first album was made up of so many songs that people had heard for years and that's amazing. But for me as a creative person, I'm writing something new all the time and all I want to do is put it out straight away. That wasn't the way it happened with [the debut] album so, for this next one, I'm hoping to be more active on writing and put something out straight away that's fresh and no one's heard before." Through 2020, Anne-Marie released the standalone singles "Birthday", "Her", "To Be Young" featuring American rapper Doja Cat and "Problems". On 15 January 2021, Anne-Marie released the lead single of Therapy "Don't Play" in collaboration with English rapper KSI and English DJ, Digital Farm Animals. On 9 April 2021, the second single "Way Too Long" was released with Nathan Dawe and MoStack. On 21 May 2021, the third single "Our Song", a collaboration with Irish singer-songwriter Niall Horan, was released. On that date, Anne-Marie announced the title, cover art, and release date of Therapy. She later announced that she will embark on the Dysfunctional Tour in 2022, and Therapy: The Live Experience on 7 August 2021 in support of the album. On July 6, 2021, Anne-Marie launched a website via Twitter that enlisted the help of her fans/followers in determining the track-listing for the album, with new ones appearing on a daily basis. On July 7, 2021, random followers received DMs with one of two song snippets and parts of the title. On July 8, 2021, the track "Kiss My (Uh-Oh)" with British girlband Little Mix was revealed. Lumidee's "Never Leave You (Uh Oooh, Uh Oooh)" is sampled in the song. The song was announced as the album's fourth single on July 9, 2021 along with its release date being 23 July 2021. Track Listing[] (with KSI & Digital Farm Animals) (with Little Mix) (with Niall Horan) (with Nathan Dawe & Mostack) (with Rudimental) (featuring Doja Cat) (with KSI and Digital Farm Animals) (JJ Lin featuring Anne-Marie) Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted.