Source: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/London_Sinfonietta
Title: London Sinfonietta - Wikipedia
Words: 5403

================================================================================

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia English contemporary chamber orchestraFor similarly named orchestras, see, see City of London Sinfonia and Sinfonia of London.This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "London Sinfonietta" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (April 2009) (Learn how and when to remove this message) London SinfoniettaChamber orchestraFounded1968 (1968)LocationLondon, EnglandConcert hallSouthbank CentreWebsitewww.londonsinfonietta.org.uk London Sinfonietta at the 2018 Kongsberg Jazzfestival The London Sinfonietta is an English contemporary chamber orchestra founded in 1968 and based in London. The ensemble has headquarters at Kings Place and is Resident Orchestra at the Southbank Centre. Since its inaugural concert in 1968—giving the world premiere of Sir John Tavener’s The Whale—the London Sinfonietta's commitment to making new music has seen it commission over 300 works, and premiere many hundreds more.[citation needed] The core of the London Sinfonietta is its 18 Principal Players. In September 2013 the ensemble launched its Emerging Artists Programme. The London Sinfonietta's recordings comprise a catalogue of 20th-century classics, on numerous labels as well as the ensemble's own London Sinfonietta Label. Directors[edit] David Atherton and Nicholas Snowman founded the orchestra in 1968. Atherton was its first music director, from 1968 to 1973 and again from 1989 to 1991. Snowman was its general manager from 1968 to 1972.[1] Clive Wearing, who joined the Sinfonietta in 1968, was one of its first chorus masters.[2] Michael Vyner served as the artistic director from 1973 to 1989. Paul Crossley took over and served from 1989 until 1994. Markus Stenz served as music director from 1994 to 1998; he was succeeded by Oliver Knussen from 1998 to 2002. Following 10 years as the ensemble's Education Officer, Gillian Moore became artistic director of the ensemble from 1998 until 2006. Since 2007, Andrew Burke has been the Chief Executive. Repertoire and commissions[edit] The ensemble has commissioned and performed many works by both emerging and established composers. In its first concert on 24 January 1968 conducted by its co-founder David Atherton, the ensemble premiered John Tavener's The Whale. In 1970 it recorded that work for The Beatles' label Apple Records. Since then, its list of over 300 commissions reaches from its early support of Sir Harrison Birtwistle, Iannis Xenakis and Luciano Berio to pieces from Magnus Lindberg, Thomas Adès, George Benjamin, Steve Reich, Tansy Davies, Dai Fujikura, Jonny Greenwood, Django Bates, Roberto Carnevale, Kenneth Hesketh and Mark-Anthony Turnage. In more recent years the ensemble has continued its commissioning relationship with a diverse range of composers including Birtwistle, Colin Matthews and Steve Reich, while giving numerous opportunities to early career composers such as Martin Suckling, Luke Bedford, Edmund Finnis and Elspeth Brooke through concert commissions and cross-art form development programmes. In its early years, the ensemble also included classical music in its programming, before its focus moved mainly to music of the latter 20th century. In the early 2000s the ensemble's programming embraced collaborations with pop and electronica artists as it sought to connect the sound-worlds across different genres of contemporary music. Most recently, the ensemble has again updated its focus, placing a priority on music of the 21st century and its connections with other art forms. In recent years its commissions have included works by Gerald Barry, Bryn Harrison and Michel van der Aa; it has worked and recorded with experimental musicians such as Mica Levi and Matthew Herbert, and produced collaborations with contemporary artists such as Martin Creed and Christian Marclay.[citation needed] The London Sinfonietta has worked with a range of conductors, not least its past music directors David Atherton, Markus Stenz and Oliver Knussen. It has had long-standing relationships with Sir Simon Rattle (in his early career), Elgar Howarth, Diego Masson, George Benjamin and Martyn Brabbins. It now appears regularly with Thierry Fischer, Sian Edwards, Baldur Bronnimann and André de Ridder. Residence and festivals[edit] The Sinfonietta is a resident ensemble of the Southbank Centre, where it performs much of its London season producing events in the Royal Festival and Queen Elizabeth Halls and the Purcell Room. Since August 2008 the ensemble's headquarters have been at the new Kings Place complex in Kings Cross, London, also home to the Orchestra of the Age of Enlightenment and The Guardian newspaper. It has performed concerts at the venue since October 2008;[3] it also regularly performs at the BBC Proms. Its concerts in London are complemented by a national and international touring schedule. International visits include the Time of Music festival in Finland, 2023.[4] Recording[edit] The Sinfonietta's acclaimed discography includes seminal recordings of many 20th-century classics, including the premiere recording of Hans Werner Henze's song cycle Voices under the baton of the composer. The ensemble was featured on EMI's 1988 3-CD authentic recording of Kern and Hammerstein's Show Boat. It made a 1991 recording of Górecki's Third Symphony for Nonesuch which sold over 700,000 copies in its first two years of release. The ensemble's discography has recently been expanded by releases on the London Sinfonietta Label, focussing on live performances of otherwise unavailable repertoire. These CDs include 50th birthday tributes to Oliver Knussen, and Toru Takemitsu’s Arc and Green. Between 2006 and 2009, the London Sinfonietta Label—in conjunction with the Jerwood Foundation and NMC Recordings—released the Jerwood Series of six CDs featuring London Sinfonietta players' performances of new compositions by young composers, which include Richard Causton, Dai Fujikura, Ian Vine and Larry Goves.[5] In 2006 a collaboration with Warp Records, featuring recordings of the music of Warp Records artists such as Aphex Twin, as well as modern classical music composers such as John Cage, was released as Warp Works & Twentieth Century Masters. The ensemble now releases recordings in partnership with different labels, which recently have included Thomas Adès' In Seven Days and Louis Andriessen's Anais Nin (on Signum), music by Pelle Gudmundsen-Holmgreen (on Da Capo) and a collaboration with Mica Levi, Chopped and Screwed (on Rough Trade). Discography[edit] Jerome Kern: Show Boat, conducted by John McGlinn, EMI, 1988 References[edit] ^ "(Michael) Nicholas SNOWMAN". Debrett's People of Today. Retrieved 3 May 2014. ^ Sacks, Oliver (17 September 2007). "A Neurologist's Notebook: The Abyss". The New Yorker. Retrieved 8 September 2025. ^ Erica Jeal (7 October 2008). "Kings Place opening concerts Days 3 & 4". The Guardian. Retrieved 2 November 2008. ^ Kokkoniemi, Assi (29 June 2023). "Musiikin ajassa ei risuja vaan uusia ääniä". Viitasaaren Seutu (in Finnish). p. 14. ISSN 0356-1402. ^ "Jerwood Series | London Sinfonietta". Archived from the original on 10 August 2009. Retrieved 21 September 2009. Jerwood Series page on London Sinfonietta website. vteMajor orchestras based in LondonSymphony BBC Concert Orchestra BBC Symphony Orchestra London Philharmonic Orchestra London Symphony Orchestra Philharmonia Orchestra Royal Philharmonic Orchestra Chamber Academy of St Martin in the Fields Aurora Orchestra Camerata of London City of London Sinfonia English Chamber Orchestra London Chamber Orchestra London Mozart Players Southbank Sinfonia Specialised Academy of Ancient Music The English Concert London Classical Players London Contemporary Orchestra London Sinfonietta Orchestra of the Age of Enlightenment Orchestre Révolutionnaire et Romantique OperaBallet Orchestra of the Royal Opera House English National Opera Orchestra Authority control databases InternationalISNIVIAFGNDNationalUnited StatesFranceBnF dataCzech RepublicIsraelAcademicsCiNiiArtistsMusicBrainzOtherIdRefYale LUX Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=London_Sinfonietta&oldid=1310839883" Categories: Sinfoniettas (orchestras)Orchestras from LondonMusical groups established in 1968Contemporary classical music ensemblesDeutsche Grammophon artistsHidden categories: CS1 Finnish-language sources (fi)Articles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataArticles needing additional references from April 2009All articles needing additional referencesUse dmy dates from May 2014Use British English from May 2014All Wikipedia articles written in British EnglishAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from November 2018 From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia English contemporary chamber orchestraFor similarly named orchestras, see, see City of London Sinfonia and Sinfonia of London.This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "London Sinfonietta" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (April 2009) (Learn how and when to remove this message) London SinfoniettaChamber orchestraFounded1968 (1968)LocationLondon, EnglandConcert hallSouthbank CentreWebsitewww.londonsinfonietta.org.uk London Sinfonietta at the 2018 Kongsberg Jazzfestival The London Sinfonietta is an English contemporary chamber orchestra founded in 1968 and based in London. The ensemble has headquarters at Kings Place and is Resident Orchestra at the Southbank Centre. Since its inaugural concert in 1968—giving the world premiere of Sir John Tavener’s The Whale—the London Sinfonietta's commitment to making new music has seen it commission over 300 works, and premiere many hundreds more.[citation needed] The core of the London Sinfonietta is its 18 Principal Players. In September 2013 the ensemble launched its Emerging Artists Programme. The London Sinfonietta's recordings comprise a catalogue of 20th-century classics, on numerous labels as well as the ensemble's own London Sinfonietta Label. Directors[edit] David Atherton and Nicholas Snowman founded the orchestra in 1968. Atherton was its first music director, from 1968 to 1973 and again from 1989 to 1991. Snowman was its general manager from 1968 to 1972.[1] Clive Wearing, who joined the Sinfonietta in 1968, was one of its first chorus masters.[2] Michael Vyner served as the artistic director from 1973 to 1989. Paul Crossley took over and served from 1989 until 1994. Markus Stenz served as music director from 1994 to 1998; he was succeeded by Oliver Knussen from 1998 to 2002. Following 10 years as the ensemble's Education Officer, Gillian Moore became artistic director of the ensemble from 1998 until 2006. Since 2007, Andrew Burke has been the Chief Executive. Repertoire and commissions[edit] The ensemble has commissioned and performed many works by both emerging and established composers. In its first concert on 24 January 1968 conducted by its co-founder David Atherton, the ensemble premiered John Tavener's The Whale. In 1970 it recorded that work for The Beatles' label Apple Records. Since then, its list of over 300 commissions reaches from its early support of Sir Harrison Birtwistle, Iannis Xenakis and Luciano Berio to pieces from Magnus Lindberg, Thomas Adès, George Benjamin, Steve Reich, Tansy Davies, Dai Fujikura, Jonny Greenwood, Django Bates, Roberto Carnevale, Kenneth Hesketh and Mark-Anthony Turnage. In more recent years the ensemble has continued its commissioning relationship with a diverse range of composers including Birtwistle, Colin Matthews and Steve Reich, while giving numerous opportunities to early career composers such as Martin Suckling, Luke Bedford, Edmund Finnis and Elspeth Brooke through concert commissions and cross-art form development programmes. In its early years, the ensemble also included classical music in its programming, before its focus moved mainly to music of the latter 20th century. In the early 2000s the ensemble's programming embraced collaborations with pop and electronica artists as it sought to connect the sound-worlds across different genres of contemporary music. Most recently, the ensemble has again updated its focus, placing a priority on music of the 21st century and its connections with other art forms. In recent years its commissions have included works by Gerald Barry, Bryn Harrison and Michel van der Aa; it has worked and recorded with experimental musicians such as Mica Levi and Matthew Herbert, and produced collaborations with contemporary artists such as Martin Creed and Christian Marclay.[citation needed] The London Sinfonietta has worked with a range of conductors, not least its past music directors David Atherton, Markus Stenz and Oliver Knussen. It has had long-standing relationships with Sir Simon Rattle (in his early career), Elgar Howarth, Diego Masson, George Benjamin and Martyn Brabbins. It now appears regularly with Thierry Fischer, Sian Edwards, Baldur Bronnimann and André de Ridder. Residence and festivals[edit] The Sinfonietta is a resident ensemble of the Southbank Centre, where it performs much of its London season producing events in the Royal Festival and Queen Elizabeth Halls and the Purcell Room. Since August 2008 the ensemble's headquarters have been at the new Kings Place complex in Kings Cross, London, also home to the Orchestra of the Age of Enlightenment and The Guardian newspaper. It has performed concerts at the venue since October 2008;[3] it also regularly performs at the BBC Proms. Its concerts in London are complemented by a national and international touring schedule. International visits include the Time of Music festival in Finland, 2023.[4] Recording[edit] The Sinfonietta's acclaimed discography includes seminal recordings of many 20th-century classics, including the premiere recording of Hans Werner Henze's song cycle Voices under the baton of the composer. The ensemble was featured on EMI's 1988 3-CD authentic recording of Kern and Hammerstein's Show Boat. It made a 1991 recording of Górecki's Third Symphony for Nonesuch which sold over 700,000 copies in its first two years of release. The ensemble's discography has recently been expanded by releases on the London Sinfonietta Label, focussing on live performances of otherwise unavailable repertoire. These CDs include 50th birthday tributes to Oliver Knussen, and Toru Takemitsu’s Arc and Green. Between 2006 and 2009, the London Sinfonietta Label—in conjunction with the Jerwood Foundation and NMC Recordings—released the Jerwood Series of six CDs featuring London Sinfonietta players' performances of new compositions by young composers, which include Richard Causton, Dai Fujikura, Ian Vine and Larry Goves.[5] In 2006 a collaboration with Warp Records, featuring recordings of the music of Warp Records artists such as Aphex Twin, as well as modern classical music composers such as John Cage, was released as Warp Works & Twentieth Century Masters. The ensemble now releases recordings in partnership with different labels, which recently have included Thomas Adès' In Seven Days and Louis Andriessen's Anais Nin (on Signum), music by Pelle Gudmundsen-Holmgreen (on Da Capo) and a collaboration with Mica Levi, Chopped and Screwed (on Rough Trade). Discography[edit] Jerome Kern: Show Boat, conducted by John McGlinn, EMI, 1988 References[edit] ^ "(Michael) Nicholas SNOWMAN". Debrett's People of Today. Retrieved 3 May 2014. ^ Sacks, Oliver (17 September 2007). "A Neurologist's Notebook: The Abyss". The New Yorker. Retrieved 8 September 2025. ^ Erica Jeal (7 October 2008). "Kings Place opening concerts Days 3 & 4". The Guardian. Retrieved 2 November 2008. ^ Kokkoniemi, Assi (29 June 2023). "Musiikin ajassa ei risuja vaan uusia ääniä". Viitasaaren Seutu (in Finnish). p. 14. ISSN 0356-1402. ^ "Jerwood Series | London Sinfonietta". Archived from the original on 10 August 2009. Retrieved 21 September 2009. Jerwood Series page on London Sinfonietta website. vteMajor orchestras based in LondonSymphony BBC Concert Orchestra BBC Symphony Orchestra London Philharmonic Orchestra London Symphony Orchestra Philharmonia Orchestra Royal Philharmonic Orchestra Chamber Academy of St Martin in the Fields Aurora Orchestra Camerata of London City of London Sinfonia English Chamber Orchestra London Chamber Orchestra London Mozart Players Southbank Sinfonia Specialised Academy of Ancient Music The English Concert London Classical Players London Contemporary Orchestra London Sinfonietta Orchestra of the Age of Enlightenment Orchestre Révolutionnaire et Romantique OperaBallet Orchestra of the Royal Opera House English National Opera Orchestra Authority control databases InternationalISNIVIAFGNDNationalUnited StatesFranceBnF dataCzech RepublicIsraelAcademicsCiNiiArtistsMusicBrainzOtherIdRefYale LUX Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=London_Sinfonietta&oldid=1310839883" English contemporary chamber orchestraFor similarly named orchestras, see, see City of London Sinfonia and Sinfonia of London.This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "London Sinfonietta" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (April 2009) (Learn how and when to remove this message) London SinfoniettaChamber orchestraFounded1968 (1968)LocationLondon, EnglandConcert hallSouthbank CentreWebsitewww.londonsinfonietta.org.uk London Sinfonietta at the 2018 Kongsberg Jazzfestival The London Sinfonietta is an English contemporary chamber orchestra founded in 1968 and based in London. The ensemble has headquarters at Kings Place and is Resident Orchestra at the Southbank Centre. Since its inaugural concert in 1968—giving the world premiere of Sir John Tavener’s The Whale—the London Sinfonietta's commitment to making new music has seen it commission over 300 works, and premiere many hundreds more.[citation needed] The core of the London Sinfonietta is its 18 Principal Players. In September 2013 the ensemble launched its Emerging Artists Programme. The London Sinfonietta's recordings comprise a catalogue of 20th-century classics, on numerous labels as well as the ensemble's own London Sinfonietta Label. Directors[edit] David Atherton and Nicholas Snowman founded the orchestra in 1968. Atherton was its first music director, from 1968 to 1973 and again from 1989 to 1991. Snowman was its general manager from 1968 to 1972.[1] Clive Wearing, who joined the Sinfonietta in 1968, was one of its first chorus masters.[2] Michael Vyner served as the artistic director from 1973 to 1989. Paul Crossley took over and served from 1989 until 1994. Markus Stenz served as music director from 1994 to 1998; he was succeeded by Oliver Knussen from 1998 to 2002. Following 10 years as the ensemble's Education Officer, Gillian Moore became artistic director of the ensemble from 1998 until 2006. Since 2007, Andrew Burke has been the Chief Executive. Repertoire and commissions[edit] The ensemble has commissioned and performed many works by both emerging and established composers. In its first concert on 24 January 1968 conducted by its co-founder David Atherton, the ensemble premiered John Tavener's The Whale. In 1970 it recorded that work for The Beatles' label Apple Records. Since then, its list of over 300 commissions reaches from its early support of Sir Harrison Birtwistle, Iannis Xenakis and Luciano Berio to pieces from Magnus Lindberg, Thomas Adès, George Benjamin, Steve Reich, Tansy Davies, Dai Fujikura, Jonny Greenwood, Django Bates, Roberto Carnevale, Kenneth Hesketh and Mark-Anthony Turnage. In more recent years the ensemble has continued its commissioning relationship with a diverse range of composers including Birtwistle, Colin Matthews and Steve Reich, while giving numerous opportunities to early career composers such as Martin Suckling, Luke Bedford, Edmund Finnis and Elspeth Brooke through concert commissions and cross-art form development programmes. In its early years, the ensemble also included classical music in its programming, before its focus moved mainly to music of the latter 20th century. In the early 2000s the ensemble's programming embraced collaborations with pop and electronica artists as it sought to connect the sound-worlds across different genres of contemporary music. Most recently, the ensemble has again updated its focus, placing a priority on music of the 21st century and its connections with other art forms. In recent years its commissions have included works by Gerald Barry, Bryn Harrison and Michel van der Aa; it has worked and recorded with experimental musicians such as Mica Levi and Matthew Herbert, and produced collaborations with contemporary artists such as Martin Creed and Christian Marclay.[citation needed] The London Sinfonietta has worked with a range of conductors, not least its past music directors David Atherton, Markus Stenz and Oliver Knussen. It has had long-standing relationships with Sir Simon Rattle (in his early career), Elgar Howarth, Diego Masson, George Benjamin and Martyn Brabbins. It now appears regularly with Thierry Fischer, Sian Edwards, Baldur Bronnimann and André de Ridder. Residence and festivals[edit] The Sinfonietta is a resident ensemble of the Southbank Centre, where it performs much of its London season producing events in the Royal Festival and Queen Elizabeth Halls and the Purcell Room. Since August 2008 the ensemble's headquarters have been at the new Kings Place complex in Kings Cross, London, also home to the Orchestra of the Age of Enlightenment and The Guardian newspaper. It has performed concerts at the venue since October 2008;[3] it also regularly performs at the BBC Proms. Its concerts in London are complemented by a national and international touring schedule. International visits include the Time of Music festival in Finland, 2023.[4] Recording[edit] The Sinfonietta's acclaimed discography includes seminal recordings of many 20th-century classics, including the premiere recording of Hans Werner Henze's song cycle Voices under the baton of the composer. The ensemble was featured on EMI's 1988 3-CD authentic recording of Kern and Hammerstein's Show Boat. It made a 1991 recording of Górecki's Third Symphony for Nonesuch which sold over 700,000 copies in its first two years of release. The ensemble's discography has recently been expanded by releases on the London Sinfonietta Label, focussing on live performances of otherwise unavailable repertoire. These CDs include 50th birthday tributes to Oliver Knussen, and Toru Takemitsu’s Arc and Green. Between 2006 and 2009, the London Sinfonietta Label—in conjunction with the Jerwood Foundation and NMC Recordings—released the Jerwood Series of six CDs featuring London Sinfonietta players' performances of new compositions by young composers, which include Richard Causton, Dai Fujikura, Ian Vine and Larry Goves.[5] In 2006 a collaboration with Warp Records, featuring recordings of the music of Warp Records artists such as Aphex Twin, as well as modern classical music composers such as John Cage, was released as Warp Works & Twentieth Century Masters. The ensemble now releases recordings in partnership with different labels, which recently have included Thomas Adès' In Seven Days and Louis Andriessen's Anais Nin (on Signum), music by Pelle Gudmundsen-Holmgreen (on Da Capo) and a collaboration with Mica Levi, Chopped and Screwed (on Rough Trade). Discography[edit] Jerome Kern: Show Boat, conducted by John McGlinn, EMI, 1988 References[edit] ^ "(Michael) Nicholas SNOWMAN". Debrett's People of Today. Retrieved 3 May 2014. ^ Sacks, Oliver (17 September 2007). "A Neurologist's Notebook: The Abyss". The New Yorker. Retrieved 8 September 2025. ^ Erica Jeal (7 October 2008). "Kings Place opening concerts Days 3 & 4". The Guardian. Retrieved 2 November 2008. ^ Kokkoniemi, Assi (29 June 2023). "Musiikin ajassa ei risuja vaan uusia ääniä". Viitasaaren Seutu (in Finnish). p. 14. ISSN 0356-1402. ^ "Jerwood Series | London Sinfonietta". Archived from the original on 10 August 2009. Retrieved 21 September 2009. Jerwood Series page on London Sinfonietta website. vteMajor orchestras based in LondonSymphony BBC Concert Orchestra BBC Symphony Orchestra London Philharmonic Orchestra London Symphony Orchestra Philharmonia Orchestra Royal Philharmonic Orchestra Chamber Academy of St Martin in the Fields Aurora Orchestra Camerata of London City of London Sinfonia English Chamber Orchestra London Chamber Orchestra London Mozart Players Southbank Sinfonia Specialised Academy of Ancient Music The English Concert London Classical Players London Contemporary Orchestra London Sinfonietta Orchestra of the Age of Enlightenment Orchestre Révolutionnaire et Romantique OperaBallet Orchestra of the Royal Opera House English National Opera Orchestra Authority control databases InternationalISNIVIAFGNDNationalUnited StatesFranceBnF dataCzech RepublicIsraelAcademicsCiNiiArtistsMusicBrainzOtherIdRefYale LUX English contemporary chamber orchestra For similarly named orchestras, see, see City of London Sinfonia and Sinfonia of London. This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "London Sinfonietta" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (April 2009) (Learn how and when to remove this message) The London Sinfonietta is an English contemporary chamber orchestra founded in 1968 and based in London. The ensemble has headquarters at Kings Place and is Resident Orchestra at the Southbank Centre. Since its inaugural concert in 1968—giving the world premiere of Sir John Tavener’s The Whale—the London Sinfonietta's commitment to making new music has seen it commission over 300 works, and premiere many hundreds more.[citation needed] The core of the London Sinfonietta is its 18 Principal Players. In September 2013 the ensemble launched its Emerging Artists Programme. The London Sinfonietta's recordings comprise a catalogue of 20th-century classics, on numerous labels as well as the ensemble's own London Sinfonietta Label. Directors[edit] David Atherton and Nicholas Snowman founded the orchestra in 1968. Atherton was its first music director, from 1968 to 1973 and again from 1989 to 1991. Snowman was its general manager from 1968 to 1972.[1] Clive Wearing, who joined the Sinfonietta in 1968, was one of its first chorus masters.[2] Michael Vyner served as the artistic director from 1973 to 1989. Paul Crossley took over and served from 1989 until 1994. Markus Stenz served as music director from 1994 to 1998; he was succeeded by Oliver Knussen from 1998 to 2002. Following 10 years as the ensemble's Education Officer, Gillian Moore became artistic director of the ensemble from 1998 until 2006. Since 2007, Andrew Burke has been the Chief Executive. Repertoire and commissions[edit] Repertoire and commissions The ensemble has commissioned and performed many works by both emerging and established composers. In its first concert on 24 January 1968 conducted by its co-founder David Atherton, the ensemble premiered John Tavener's The Whale. In 1970 it recorded that work for The Beatles' label Apple Records. Since then, its list of over 300 commissions reaches from its early support of Sir Harrison Birtwistle, Iannis Xenakis and Luciano Berio to pieces from Magnus Lindberg, Thomas Adès, George Benjamin, Steve Reich, Tansy Davies, Dai Fujikura, Jonny Greenwood, Django Bates, Roberto Carnevale, Kenneth Hesketh and Mark-Anthony Turnage. In more recent years the ensemble has continued its commissioning relationship with a diverse range of composers including Birtwistle, Colin Matthews and Steve Reich, while giving numerous opportunities to early career composers such as Martin Suckling, Luke Bedford, Edmund Finnis and Elspeth Brooke through concert commissions and cross-art form development programmes. In its early years, the ensemble also included classical music in its programming, before its focus moved mainly to music of the latter 20th century. In the early 2000s the ensemble's programming embraced collaborations with pop and electronica artists as it sought to connect the sound-worlds across different genres of contemporary music. Most recently, the ensemble has again updated its focus, placing a priority on music of the 21st century and its connections with other art forms. In recent years its commissions have included works by Gerald Barry, Bryn Harrison and Michel van der Aa; it has worked and recorded with experimental musicians such as Mica Levi and Matthew Herbert, and produced collaborations with contemporary artists such as Martin Creed and Christian Marclay.[citation needed] The London Sinfonietta has worked with a range of conductors, not least its past music directors David Atherton, Markus Stenz and Oliver Knussen. It has had long-standing relationships with Sir Simon Rattle (in his early career), Elgar Howarth, Diego Masson, George Benjamin and Martyn Brabbins. It now appears regularly with Thierry Fischer, Sian Edwards, Baldur Bronnimann and André de Ridder. Residence and festivals[edit] Residence and festivals The Sinfonietta is a resident ensemble of the Southbank Centre, where it performs much of its London season producing events in the Royal Festival and Queen Elizabeth Halls and the Purcell Room. Since August 2008 the ensemble's headquarters have been at the new Kings Place complex in Kings Cross, London, also home to the Orchestra of the Age of Enlightenment and The Guardian newspaper. It has performed concerts at the venue since October 2008;[3] it also regularly performs at the BBC Proms. Its concerts in London are complemented by a national and international touring schedule. International visits include the Time of Music festival in Finland, 2023.[4] Recording[edit] The Sinfonietta's acclaimed discography includes seminal recordings of many 20th-century classics, including the premiere recording of Hans Werner Henze's song cycle Voices under the baton of the composer. The ensemble was featured on EMI's 1988 3-CD authentic recording of Kern and Hammerstein's Show Boat. It made a 1991 recording of Górecki's Third Symphony for Nonesuch which sold over 700,000 copies in its first two years of release. The ensemble's discography has recently been expanded by releases on the London Sinfonietta Label, focussing on live performances of otherwise unavailable repertoire. These CDs include 50th birthday tributes to Oliver Knussen, and Toru Takemitsu’s Arc and Green. Between 2006 and 2009, the London Sinfonietta Label—in conjunction with the Jerwood Foundation and NMC Recordings—released the Jerwood Series of six CDs featuring London Sinfonietta players' performances of new compositions by young composers, which include Richard Causton, Dai Fujikura, Ian Vine and Larry Goves.[5] In 2006 a collaboration with Warp Records, featuring recordings of the music of Warp Records artists such as Aphex Twin, as well as modern classical music composers such as John Cage, was released as Warp Works & Twentieth Century Masters. The ensemble now releases recordings in partnership with different labels, which recently have included Thomas Adès' In Seven Days and Louis Andriessen's Anais Nin (on Signum), music by Pelle Gudmundsen-Holmgreen (on Da Capo) and a collaboration with Mica Levi, Chopped and Screwed (on Rough Trade). Discography[edit] Discography Jerome Kern: Show Boat, conducted by John McGlinn, EMI, 1988 References[edit] ^ "(Michael) Nicholas SNOWMAN". Debrett's People of Today. Retrieved 3 May 2014. ^ Sacks, Oliver (17 September 2007). "A Neurologist's Notebook: The Abyss". The New Yorker. Retrieved 8 September 2025. ^ Erica Jeal (7 October 2008). "Kings Place opening concerts Days 3 & 4". The Guardian. Retrieved 2 November 2008. ^ Kokkoniemi, Assi (29 June 2023). "Musiikin ajassa ei risuja vaan uusia ääniä". Viitasaaren Seutu (in Finnish). p. 14. ISSN 0356-1402. ^ "Jerwood Series | London Sinfonietta". Archived from the original on 10 August 2009. Retrieved 21 September 2009. Jerwood Series page on London Sinfonietta website. ^ "(Michael) Nicholas SNOWMAN". Debrett's People of Today. Retrieved 3 May 2014. ^ Sacks, Oliver (17 September 2007). "A Neurologist's Notebook: The Abyss". The New Yorker. Retrieved 8 September 2025. ^ Erica Jeal (7 October 2008). "Kings Place opening concerts Days 3 & 4". The Guardian. Retrieved 2 November 2008. ^ Kokkoniemi, Assi (29 June 2023). "Musiikin ajassa ei risuja vaan uusia ääniä". Viitasaaren Seutu (in Finnish). p. 14. ISSN 0356-1402. ^ "Jerwood Series | London Sinfonietta". Archived from the original on 10 August 2009. Retrieved 21 September 2009. Jerwood Series page on London Sinfonietta website. ^ "(Michael) Nicholas SNOWMAN". Debrett's People of Today. Retrieved 3 May 2014. ^ Sacks, Oliver (17 September 2007). "A Neurologist's Notebook: The Abyss". The New Yorker. Retrieved 8 September 2025. ^ Erica Jeal (7 October 2008). "Kings Place opening concerts Days 3 & 4". The Guardian. Retrieved 2 November 2008. ^ Kokkoniemi, Assi (29 June 2023). "Musiikin ajassa ei risuja vaan uusia ääniä". Viitasaaren Seutu (in Finnish). p. 14. ISSN 0356-1402. ^ "Jerwood Series | London Sinfonietta". Archived from the original on 10 August 2009. Retrieved 21 September 2009. Jerwood Series page on London Sinfonietta website. vteMajor orchestras based in LondonSymphony BBC Concert Orchestra BBC Symphony Orchestra London Philharmonic Orchestra London Symphony Orchestra Philharmonia Orchestra Royal Philharmonic Orchestra Chamber Academy of St Martin in the Fields Aurora Orchestra Camerata of London City of London Sinfonia English Chamber Orchestra London Chamber Orchestra London Mozart Players Southbank Sinfonia Specialised Academy of Ancient Music The English Concert London Classical Players London Contemporary Orchestra London Sinfonietta Orchestra of the Age of Enlightenment Orchestre Révolutionnaire et Romantique OperaBallet Orchestra of the Royal Opera House English National Opera Orchestra Major orchestras based in London BBC Concert Orchestra BBC Symphony Orchestra London Philharmonic Orchestra London Symphony Orchestra Philharmonia Orchestra Royal Philharmonic Orchestra BBC Concert Orchestra BBC Symphony Orchestra London Philharmonic Orchestra London Symphony Orchestra Philharmonia Orchestra Royal Philharmonic Orchestra Academy of St Martin in the Fields Aurora Orchestra Camerata of London City of London Sinfonia English Chamber Orchestra London Chamber Orchestra London Mozart Players Southbank Sinfonia Academy of St Martin in the Fields Aurora Orchestra Camerata of London City of London Sinfonia English Chamber Orchestra London Chamber Orchestra London Mozart Players Southbank Sinfonia Academy of Ancient Music The English Concert London Classical Players London Contemporary Orchestra London Sinfonietta Orchestra of the Age of Enlightenment Orchestre Révolutionnaire et Romantique Academy of Ancient Music The English Concert London Classical Players London Contemporary Orchestra London Sinfonietta Orchestra of the Age of Enlightenment Orchestre Révolutionnaire et Romantique OperaBallet Orchestra of the Royal Opera House English National Opera Orchestra Orchestra of the Royal Opera House English National Opera Orchestra Authority control databases InternationalISNIVIAFGNDNationalUnited StatesFranceBnF dataCzech RepublicIsraelAcademicsCiNiiArtistsMusicBrainzOtherIdRefYale LUX Authority control databases ISNIVIAFGND United StatesFranceBnF dataCzech RepublicIsrael United States Czech Republic MusicBrainz MusicBrainz IdRefYale LUX Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=London_Sinfonietta&oldid=1310839883" Categories: Sinfoniettas (orchestras)Orchestras from LondonMusical groups established in 1968Contemporary classical music ensemblesDeutsche Grammophon artistsHidden categories: CS1 Finnish-language sources (fi)Articles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataArticles needing additional references from April 2009All articles needing additional referencesUse dmy dates from May 2014Use British English from May 2014All Wikipedia articles written in British EnglishAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from November 2018 Categories: Sinfoniettas (orchestras)Orchestras from LondonMusical groups established in 1968Contemporary classical music ensemblesDeutsche Grammophon artists Sinfoniettas (orchestras) Orchestras from London Musical groups established in 1968 Contemporary classical music ensembles Deutsche Grammophon artists Hidden categories: CS1 Finnish-language sources (fi)Articles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataArticles needing additional references from April 2009All articles needing additional referencesUse dmy dates from May 2014Use British English from May 2014All Wikipedia articles written in British EnglishAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from November 2018 CS1 Finnish-language sources (fi) Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles needing additional references from April 2009 All articles needing additional references Use dmy dates from May 2014 Use British English from May 2014 All Wikipedia articles written in British English All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from November 2018