Source: https://alnham.parish.uk/
Title: ALNHAM PARISH
Words: 2008

================================================================================

Welcome to Alnham CLICK FOR 2021 CENSUS DATA Welcome to Alnham CLICK FOR 2021 CENSUS DATA Welcome to Alnham CLICK FOR 2021 CENSUS DATA Welcome to Alnham CLICK FOR 2021 CENSUS DATA Welcome to Alnham Introduction Alnham is a hamlet and civil parish in Northumberland, England. It is about 14 miles (23 km) west of Alnwick, about 6 miles (9.7 km) from Scotland and is located on the south of a small tributary of the River Aln. The village stands on uneven ground, sloping from south to north, at the foot of the southern outliers of the Cheviot Hills. The River Aln flows eastward through the village from its source in the Cheviot Hills down to the coast. The layout of the village appears to have been dictated by the river. The estimated population taken at the 2011 Census was around 245.There is evidence of human occupation in Alnham and the surrounding areas dating from prehistoric times. The remains of a Medieval settlement, hillforts, and other historic buildings can still be found in the village today. Located near the border between England and Scotland, Alnham often suffered at the hands of Anglo-Scottish border conflict during its history. The economy of Alnham has been focussed on agriculture throughout its existence as a settlement. Wikipedia page Do you live in Alnham? Register as a resident of Alnham Parish. Stay connected with your local Parish and be the first to be notified of new data updates or new planning applications submitted in Alnham Parish. Register as resident Introduction Alnham is a hamlet and civil parish in Northumberland, England. It is about 14 miles (23 km) west of Alnwick, about 6 miles (9.7 km) from Scotland and is located on the south of a small tributary of the River Aln. The village stands on uneven ground, sloping from south to north, at the foot of the southern outliers of the Cheviot Hills. The River Aln flows eastward through the village from its source in the Cheviot Hills down to the coast. The layout of the village appears to have been dictated by the river. The estimated population taken at the 2011 Census was around 245.There is evidence of human occupation in Alnham and the surrounding areas dating from prehistoric times. The remains of a Medieval settlement, hillforts, and other historic buildings can still be found in the village today. Located near the border between England and Scotland, Alnham often suffered at the hands of Anglo-Scottish border conflict during its history. The economy of Alnham has been focussed on agriculture throughout its existence as a settlement. Wikipedia page Do you live in Alnham? Register as a resident of Alnham Parish. Stay connected with your local Parish and be the first to be notified of new data updates or new planning applications submitted in Alnham Parish. Register as resident Introduction Alnham is a hamlet and civil parish in Northumberland, England. It is about 14 miles (23 km) west of Alnwick, about 6 miles (9.7 km) from Scotland and is located on the south of a small tributary of the River Aln. The village stands on uneven ground, sloping from south to north, at the foot of the southern outliers of the Cheviot Hills. The River Aln flows eastward through the village from its source in the Cheviot Hills down to the coast. The layout of the village appears to have been dictated by the river. The estimated population taken at the 2011 Census was around 245.There is evidence of human occupation in Alnham and the surrounding areas dating from prehistoric times. The remains of a Medieval settlement, hillforts, and other historic buildings can still be found in the village today. Located near the border between England and Scotland, Alnham often suffered at the hands of Anglo-Scottish border conflict during its history. The economy of Alnham has been focussed on agriculture throughout its existence as a settlement. Wikipedia page Do you live in Alnham? Register as a resident of Alnham Parish. Stay connected with your local Parish and be the first to be notified of new data updates or new planning applications submitted in Alnham Parish. Register as resident Introduction Alnham is a hamlet and civil parish in Northumberland, England. It is about 14 miles (23 km) west of Alnwick, about 6 miles (9.7 km) from Scotland and is located on the south of a small tributary of the River Aln. The village stands on uneven ground, sloping from south to north, at the foot of the southern outliers of the Cheviot Hills. The River Aln flows eastward through the village from its source in the Cheviot Hills down to the coast. The layout of the village appears to have been dictated by the river. The estimated population taken at the 2011 Census was around 245.There is evidence of human occupation in Alnham and the surrounding areas dating from prehistoric times. The remains of a Medieval settlement, hillforts, and other historic buildings can still be found in the village today. Located near the border between England and Scotland, Alnham often suffered at the hands of Anglo-Scottish border conflict during its history. The economy of Alnham has been focussed on agriculture throughout its existence as a settlement. Wikipedia page Do you live in Alnham? Register as a resident of Alnham Parish. Stay connected with your local Parish and be the first to be notified of new data updates or new planning applications submitted in Alnham Parish. Register as resident Introduction Alnham is a hamlet and civil parish in Northumberland, England. It is about 14 miles (23 km) west of Alnwick, about 6 miles (9.7 km) from Scotland and is located on the south of a small tributary of the River Aln. The village stands on uneven ground, sloping from south to north, at the foot of the southern outliers of the Cheviot Hills. The River Aln flows eastward through the village from its source in the Cheviot Hills down to the coast. The layout of the village appears to have been dictated by the river. The estimated population taken at the 2011 Census was around 245.There is evidence of human occupation in Alnham and the surrounding areas dating from prehistoric times. The remains of a Medieval settlement, hillforts, and other historic buildings can still be found in the village today. Located near the border between England and Scotland, Alnham often suffered at the hands of Anglo-Scottish border conflict during its history. The economy of Alnham has been focussed on agriculture throughout its existence as a settlement. Wikipedia page Introduction Alnham is a hamlet and civil parish in Northumberland, England. It is about 14 miles (23 km) west of Alnwick, about 6 miles (9.7 km) from Scotland and is located on the south of a small tributary of the River Aln. The village stands on uneven ground, sloping from south to north, at the foot of the southern outliers of the Cheviot Hills. The River Aln flows eastward through the village from its source in the Cheviot Hills down to the coast. The layout of the village appears to have been dictated by the river. The estimated population taken at the 2011 Census was around 245.There is evidence of human occupation in Alnham and the surrounding areas dating from prehistoric times. The remains of a Medieval settlement, hillforts, and other historic buildings can still be found in the village today. Located near the border between England and Scotland, Alnham often suffered at the hands of Anglo-Scottish border conflict during its history. The economy of Alnham has been focussed on agriculture throughout its existence as a settlement. Wikipedia page Do you live in Alnham? Register as a resident of Alnham Parish. Stay connected with your local Parish and be the first to be notified of new data updates or new planning applications submitted in Alnham Parish. Register as resident Do you live in Alnham? Register as a resident of Alnham Parish. Stay connected with your local Parish and be the first to be notified of new data updates or new planning applications submitted in Alnham Parish. Register as resident Do you live in Alnham? Register as a resident of Alnham Parish. Stay connected with your local Parish and be the first to be notified of new data updates or new planning applications submitted in Alnham Parish. Parish Information Parish statistics Area 5,910 hectares Population 270 (2021) Density 5 people/km2 Mean age Ward Rothbury District Northumberland Postcodes NE66 ONS ID E04010730 Council Contact details for Alnham Parish Council, including current councillors, precept data and election results. View Parish Council Education View educational establishments in Alnham Parish. Data includes OFSTED rating and current appointed governors. View Education Business Business directory listing local businesses operating within Alnham Parish. View Business Directory Planning View recent planning applications submitted for Alnham Parish. View Planning Applications Property Price paid data for all property sold in Alnham Parish since 2018. Includes average prices for each property type. View Property Heritage Local heritage sites, historic churches, heritage pubs plus local heritage initiatives for Alnham Parish. View Heritage Local News Parish Information Parish statistics Area 5,910 hectares Population 270 (2021) Density 5 people/km2 Mean age Ward Rothbury District Northumberland Postcodes NE66 ONS ID E04010730 Council Contact details for Alnham Parish Council, including current councillors, precept data and election results. View Parish Council Education View educational establishments in Alnham Parish. Data includes OFSTED rating and current appointed governors. View Education Business Business directory listing local businesses operating within Alnham Parish. View Business Directory Planning View recent planning applications submitted for Alnham Parish. View Planning Applications Property Price paid data for all property sold in Alnham Parish since 2018. Includes average prices for each property type. View Property Heritage Local heritage sites, historic churches, heritage pubs plus local heritage initiatives for Alnham Parish. View Heritage Local News Parish Information Parish statistics Area 5,910 hectares Population 270 (2021) Density 5 people/km2 Mean age Ward Rothbury District Northumberland Postcodes NE66 ONS ID E04010730 Parish Information Parish Information Parish statistics Area 5,910 hectares Population 270 (2021) Density 5 people/km2 Mean age Ward Rothbury District Northumberland Postcodes NE66 ONS ID E04010730 Parish statistics Area 5,910 hectares Population 270 (2021) Density 5 people/km2 Mean age Ward Rothbury District Northumberland Postcodes NE66 ONS ID E04010730 Parish statistics 5,910 hectares 270 (2021) 5 people/km2 Northumberland Council Contact details for Alnham Parish Council, including current councillors, precept data and election results. View Parish Council Education View educational establishments in Alnham Parish. Data includes OFSTED rating and current appointed governors. View Education Business Business directory listing local businesses operating within Alnham Parish. View Business Directory Council Contact details for Alnham Parish Council, including current councillors, precept data and election results. View Parish Council Contact details for Alnham Parish Council, including current councillors, precept data and election results. View Parish Council Education View educational establishments in Alnham Parish. Data includes OFSTED rating and current appointed governors. View Education View educational establishments in Alnham Parish. Data includes OFSTED rating and current appointed governors. View Education Business Business directory listing local businesses operating within Alnham Parish. View Business Directory Business directory listing local businesses operating within Alnham Parish. View Business Directory Planning View recent planning applications submitted for Alnham Parish. View Planning Applications Property Price paid data for all property sold in Alnham Parish since 2018. Includes average prices for each property type. View Property Heritage Local heritage sites, historic churches, heritage pubs plus local heritage initiatives for Alnham Parish. View Heritage Planning View recent planning applications submitted for Alnham Parish. View Planning Applications View recent planning applications submitted for Alnham Parish. View Planning Applications Property Price paid data for all property sold in Alnham Parish since 2018. Includes average prices for each property type. View Property Price paid data for all property sold in Alnham Parish since 2018. Includes average prices for each property type. View Property Heritage Local heritage sites, historic churches, heritage pubs plus local heritage initiatives for Alnham Parish. View Heritage Local heritage sites, historic churches, heritage pubs plus local heritage initiatives for Alnham Parish. View Heritage