Source: https://content.ucpress.edu/pages/10132/10132.sample.pdf
Words: 5093

================================================================================

Excerpted from buy this book © by the Regents of the University of California. Not to be reproduced without publisher’s written permission. CHAPTER 1 A BRIEF HISTORY OF BEETLE STUDY IN CALIFORNIA Beetles have long captured the imagination of California’s human inhabitants.No doubt the earliest interest in Califor- nia beetles came from the indigenous peoples who lived in the region for over 10,000 years,long before the arrival ofthe Eu- ropeans.Beetles played an important and practical role in the lives of these indigenous peoples,possibly as medicine and most certainly as food.Later,Spanish mission builders intro- duced agriculture to the state but had little direct interest in California beetles.The activities ofthe Spanish,however,did result in the introduction ofseveral kinds ofimportant beetle pests to California from the Old World. Thefirst scientific studies ofCalifornia beetles began with the Russian occupation of northern California in the early 1800s.The influx ofAmericans and Europeans to California in the wake ofthe Gold Rush in the mid-1800s led to an in- creased interest in California’s unique beetles.With the rapid increase of the state’s agricultural prowess and subsequent pest infestations,the stage was set for the establishment ofre- search institutions, universities, and societies fostering the study of California beetles. The early beetle collections of these institutions were built largely by dedicated amateurs who conducted extensive field work throughout the state on their own time and money. Native Americans and Beetles California’s Native Americans considered the larvae of the Pine Sawyer(Ergates spiculatus)and the California Prionus (Prionus californicus) to be delicacies. These sausage-sized grubs are an excellent source offat and were removed from logs or stumps to be cooked or eaten raw.Other longhorn beetle (Cerambycidae) larvae, including the Ribbed Pine Borer(Rhagium inquisitor),Nautical Borer(Xylotrechus nau- ticus), Spotted Pine Sawyer (Monochamus maculosus), and 2 A BRIEF HISTORY OF BEETLE STUDY Black Pine Sawyer(M.scutellatus),were also consumed.Wee- vil grubs infesting stores ofacorn and pine nuts not only pro- vided an additional source ofprotein,but they probably en- hanced the nutty and oily flavor of the meal.Adult Striped June Beetles (Polyphylla crinita, Scarabaeidae) and other common scarabs attracted to evening campfires were fre- quently consumed. Not all Native American encounters with beetles were of the culinary sort.Large black and bumbling darkling beetles (Tenebrionidae) were certainly known to the Mojave by their offensive smell and were dubbed humahnana.The Juaneño people referred to bright red ladybugs (Coccinellidae) as cor- onnes,and yellow species were called tepis.Interestingly,these were the same words used to refer to the first and second wives oftheir chief. European Colonization The Spanish settlements in what is now California began with the establishment ofMission San Diego in 1769 and stretched northward to Sonoma.The influence ofthe mission system began to deteriorate in 1834 and abruptly ended in 1846.The primary aim ofeach mission was the development ofagricul- ture to provide food for the native people and other mission workers.To this end the mission fathers brought with them all kinds ofplant materials from Europe and elsewhere,includ- ing seeds,vines,and rootstock.Hidden among these materi- als were some ofthe first beetles introduced to western North America.European grain pests such as the Granary Weevil (Sitophilus granarius)and the Rice Weevil(Sitophilus oryzae, Curculionidae) were found sealed in the adobe bricks ofthe Santo Domingo mission in Baja California, built in 1775, which suggests that these and other pests were introduced to California with the establishment ofthe San Diego mission. A BRIEF HISTORY OF BEETLE STUDY 3 Beginning as early as 1779,whaling vessels and hide ships carrying furs and tallow from Asia and Europe landed at the harbors of San Francisco and Monterey to obtain supplies. From these ships were probably the first introductions ofEu- ropean ham beetles (Necrobia, Cleridae), skin beetles (An- threnusandDermestes,Dermestidae),and spider beetles (Pti- nus,Anobiidae).Native skin and hide beetles were also spread up and down the coast by these ships and were very likely in- troduced to other ports elsewhere in the world. Early Russian Influences Unlike the Spanish,whose interests in California were prima- rily mission building,the Russians were very much interested in the exploration of the region’s natural history. Russian America stretched from Alaska southward to coastal north- ern California.Fort Ross (pl.1),located north ofSan Fran- Plate 1. Fort Ross, located north of San Francisco, was a noted trading center and farming community established by the Russians in 1812 and was the first center of California beetle study. 4 A BRIEF HISTORY OF BEETLE STUDY Figure 1. Physician and naturalist Johann Freidrich Eschscholtz (1793 to 1831) was the first person to for- mally collect and describe beetles in California. Portrait from Eschscholtz’s Zoo- logischer Atlas,Rare B0227, Alaska and Polar Regions Archives, Rasmuson Library, University of Alaska at Fairbanks. cisco,was a noted trading center and farming community es- tablished by the Russians in 1812 in what was then called New California.The community became a focal point for many Russian insect collectors who scoured the territory between Bodega Bay and Mount St.Helena for specimens,especially beetles.Fort Ross was abandoned in 1841,but not before sev- eral prominent entomologists and naturalists had studied beetles from the region. Johann Freidrich Eschscholtz (1793 to 1831) (fig.1) made two voyages to California,courtesy of the Imperial Russian Navy.In 1815 Eschscholtz arrived on the brig Rurik as the ship’s physician and naturalist. He collected for only one month in the vicinity ofSan Francisco and was accompanied by botanist Adelbert von Chamisso. On this trip, the first specimens ofthe California poppy were collected.Chamisso named the species Eschscholtzia californica, in honor of his friend and colleague. Eschscholtz returned to San Francisco Bay in September 1824.His collections on this trip were made in the vicinity of San Francisco,Santa Clara,San Rafael,Bodega Bay,and the lower Sacramento River.He spent several days in the vicinity A BRIEF HISTORY OF BEETLE STUDY 5 of Fort Ross,where he obtained a large series of nearly 100 species ofbeetles. Eschscholtz later visited the French naturalist Pierre Fran- cois Marie Auguste Dejean in Paris.Dejean had accumulated the greatest collection of beetles in the world, with over 22,000 species. Here, Eschscholtz penned many of the de- scriptions of the beetles he collected during his last trip to California.After Eschscholtz’s death,Dejean published many of Eschscholtz’s descriptions in 1836.Although Dejean at- tributed the descriptions to Eschscholtz,the rules ofzoologi- cal nomenclature dictate that he and not Eschscholtz is the author ofthe species. The Governor ofFinland,Carl Gustov von Mannerheim (1804 to 1854),prepared and described much of the beetle material accumulated by Russian museums,especially those collected on expeditions to Siberia,Alaska, and California. He wrote two ofthe first papers on California beetles in 1840 and 1843,describing hundreds ofspecies.His collectors in- cluded the governor ofRussian America (F.P.Wrangell),two physicians in the Russian American Company (E.L.Blaschke and F.Fischer),the overseer at Fort Ross (G.Tschernikh),and an entomologist (I.G.Vosnesensky). Ilya Gavrilovich Vosnesensky (1816 to 1871) was the only Russian to visit California who was trained as an entomolo- gist.He served as an apprentice to E.Ménétriés at the Imperi- al Academy ofSciences at St.Petersburg.The Imperial Acad- emy sent Vosnesensky to Russian America specifically for the purpose ofcollecting insects.He arrived at Fort Ross in July 1840 and remained there until September 1841,collecting in the vicinities ofSan Francisco,Russian River,Bodega Bay,and New Helvetia.New Helvetia,now the site ofSacramento,was founded by the Swede John Sutter,who established Fort Sut- ter there in 1841.Russian entomologists C.V.von Manner- heim,V.I.Motschulsky,and E.Ménétriés described Vosne- sensky’s beetles. 6 A BRIEF HISTORY OF BEETLE STUDY Military Outposts and Entomological Exploration in California Logistical difficulties excluded California and much of the West from any thorough explorations by American entomol- ogists in the early nineteenth century.Collections made by a few adventurous collectors during railroad surveys and at mil- itary garrisons during the mid-1800s,however,yielded many exciting new beetles from California.American military out- posts in California served as early centers ofcollecting activ- ity for eastern entomologists employed as army surgeons. Fort Tejon was a military post built in 1852 and was estab- lished to protect immigrants from bandits and renegades.Lo- cated in the mountains between Bakersfield and Los Angeles, Fort Tejon was a popular and fertile hunting ground for bee- tle collectors of the day. Hungarian zoologist and botanist John Xantus de Vesey collected there in 1857 to 1858.John L. LeConte collected beetles in the region in 1850 and described many beetles collected there by Xantus.G.H.Horn also vis- ited Fort Tejon and collected a large number ofbeetles there sometime between 1863 and 1867. Horn also collected numerous beetles at another impor- tant early entomological site in California,Camp Indepen- dence. Located east of the Sierra Nevada in Inyo County where what is now the town of Independence,Camp Inde- pendence was established on Oak Creek in the Owens Valley in 1862.The camp was leveled and immediately rebuilt after the earthquake of1872 but was later abandoned in 1877. American entomology at this time was frustratingly diffi- cult, requiring consultation of European literature, speci- mens,and entomologists.The flow ofspecimens outside the country fueled efforts to build and maintain large,perma- nent, and comprehensive insect collections staffed by pro- A BRIEF HISTORY OF BEETLE STUDY 7 fessional entomologists.By the end ofthe Civil War and the completion of the first transcontinental railway in 1869, the stream ofspecimens from the West to entomologists and the scientific institutions of eastern United States increased dramatically.By the 1880s,institutions such as Harvard Uni- versity,the Philadelphia Academy ofSciences,the Smithson- ian Institution,and their publications established American entomology as a science comparable to that ofEurope. Centers for Beetle Study in California Beginning with the discovery of gold in 1849, enormous numbers ofpeople from all walks oflife,including natural- ists, immigrated to California. As California’s population grew,so did the state’s agricultural industry,particularly its fruit culture.This chain ofevents set into motion the estab- lishment ofCalifornia’s research institutions and universities, first in the northern part of the state and then spreading southward. With its institutions approaching the status of those in the east,California continued to attract enthusiastic researchers and collectors from the rest ofcountry. California Academy of Sciences Stemming the flow ofwestern North America’s insects to the institutions of the east was the establishment of the state’s oldest scientific society,the California Academy of Natural Sciences. Founded in San Francisco in 1853, the Academy later changed its name to the California Academy ofSciences in 1868.Construction ofits first permanent buildings to store collections began on Market Street in 1891.The Academy’s collections and libraries provided the first focal point for Cali- fornia beetle study. 8 A BRIEF HISTORY OF BEETLE STUDY Unfortunately the Academy’s collections and libraries were almost completely destroyed in the fire following the San Francisco earthquake of 1906. Temporarily headquar- tered in the Security Building on Market Street,the Academy immediately set out to rebuild its collections and library.The new buildings were completed in 1915 at their present loca- tion in Golden Gate Park. Since 1933,the monthly meetings ofthe Pacific Coast En- tomological Society have been held in the Academy’s Ento- mology Department.Today the Academy houses the largest insect collection in California, with more than 12 million specimens,and is the site ofthe most important beetle collec- tion west ofthe Mississippi River. University of California Founded at Berkeley in 1868,the University of California was established as California’s foundation for agricultural investigation and teaching in the state.As the state’s agricul- tural prowess grew,so did its insect pest problems.Special instruction in entomology at the university began in 1882, and the Department of Entomology and Parasitology was established in 1920.Agricultural Experiment Stations were set up throughout the state to study regional agricultural pest problems,especially those affecting citrus groves.The California Insect Survey was started in 1940 by the Agricul- tural Experiment Station in an effort to build a comprehen- sive collection ofthe state’s insect fauna and facilitate proj- ects in applied entomology in California.The Essig Museum of Entomology at the University of California at Berkeley was founded as the collection component ofthis survey and currently contains over five million specimens.The Univer- sity ofCalifornia system now has two other campuses (Davis and Riverside) that house important California beetle col- lections. A BRIEF HISTORY OF BEETLE STUDY 9 San Diego Museum of Natural History About the same time the new California Academy ofSciences reopened its doors,two other important entomological insti- tutions were founded in Los Angeles and San Diego.The San Diego Natural History Museum traces its roots to an enthusi- astic group ofamateur naturalists who formed the San Diego Society ofNatural History in 1874.The Society opened its first exhibits in a hotel in 1912 and moved to Balboa Park five years later.Its present facility was built at that location in 1933.This small but historically important beetle collection contains species from the San Diego region and Baja California. Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County Under the auspices ofthe county ofLos Angeles,the Museum of History,Science,and Art formally opened in November 1913.The early reputation ofthe museum was built on the in- ternationally renowned Pleistocene deposits, including in- sects,recovered from the La Brea Tar Pits.With the departure of the Art Department in the early 1960s,the museum be- came known as the Los Angeles County Museum ofNatural History and later as the present Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County. During the 1920s and 1930s,the museum sponsored the annual Butterfly Show featuring numerous insect displays. This tradition continues today with the annual Insect Fair held in May.The museum is also the site ofone ofthe coun- try’s largest insect zoos,attracting nearly a quarter million visitors each year. With eight million specimens, the Entomology Section houses the second largest insect collection in California.Over the years it has absorbed the entomological collections ofthe University ofCalifornia at Los Angeles,University ofSouth- ern California,and Stanford University.The collection is a 10 A BRIEF HISTORY OF BEETLE STUDY repository for the California Channel Island survey con- ducted in the 1930s and 1940s.The C.D.Nagano collection of tiger beetles is deposited here.In 1995,one of the authors (Evans) added his worldwide collection ofscarab beetles,to- taling some 40,000 specimens,to the museum.The Lorquin Entomological Society,named after the famed French natu- ralist who explored California in the mid-1800s,is affiliated with the Entomology Section and has held its meetings at the museum since 1927. California Beetle Workers California,with its profusion ofbeetles and habitats,has in- spired professional entomologists and dedicated amateur naturalists for nearly 200 years.After the Russian explorers left California in the 1840s,several European and American coleopterists made significant contributions to our under- standing of the state’s beetle fauna. Although a few were trained as entomologists,most were physicians,tradesmen, or independently wealthy naturalists building their own pri- vate beetle collections (fig.2).These private collections even- tually found their way into museums and universities throughout the country and form the foundation ofour un- derstanding ofbeetle classification,distribution,and biology. The lives,interests,and contributions ofsome ofthese men are briefly presented below. John Lawrence LeConte (1825 to 1883) LeConte (fig.3) was one ofthe most eminent American ento- mologists of the nineteenth century and was recognized as the premier authority on North American beetles throughout the world. He was a pioneer in the classification of North American beetles,earning him the reputation as the father of American beetle study. A BRIEF HISTORY OF BEETLE STUDY 11 Figure 2. Taken in San Francisco in 1888, this photo includes some of the most prominent beetle collectors of the day. Standing, from left to right, are Albert Koebele, James H. Behrens, and Thomas Lincoln Casey. Seated, from left to right, are James Rivers, George W. Dunn, Charles Fuchs, and W.G.W. Harford. Photo from Grinnell (1914). LeConte’s mother died only a few months after his birth in New York City.His father,Major John E.LeConte,who had published several papers on butterflies and beetles,raised his son alone.The major instilled in young LeConte a passion for natural history at an early age.Publishing his first three pa- pers on beetles in 1844 at the age of19,LeConte would go on to describe some 5,000 species ofbeetles in his lifetime,many ofwhich are represented in California. In one ofhis first papers LeConte established himselfas an outspoken advocate ofthe need for American entomologists 12 A BRIEF HISTORY OF BEETLE STUDY Figure 3. John Lawrence LeConte (1825 to 1883) was one of the most eminent American entomologists of the nineteenth century. A pioneer in the classification of North American beetles, LeConte is considered the father of American beetle study. Photo from Scudder (1884). to describe American insects. He deplored the practice of sending specimens to Europe for determination or descrip- tion and in 1845 announced “America’s Entomological Dec- laration ofIndependence.” While training as a physician at the college ofPhysicians and Surgeons in New York,LeConte spent much ofhis time traveling about the United States collecting beetles.After re- ceiving his medical degree in 1846, LeConte never entered practice, although he later served the army as a surgeon. LeConte traveled to California via the Isthmus ofPanama in 1849 and collected insects from areas around San Francisco and San Diego.He once sent 10,000 beetles preserved in alco- hol from San Francisco to his father in New York.Another 20,000 or so specimens were apparently lost in the fire that ravaged San Francisco in 1852. Working with another pioneer entomologist,S.S.Halde- man,LeConte revised F.E.Melsheimer’s Catalogue ofthe Cole- optera of the United States. Published in 1853 by the Smith- sonian Institution,the catalog marked the first organized study ofbeetles in the United States and listed 540 species ofbeetles from California.Most importantly the catalog served as the foundation for subsequent catalogs ofNorth American beetles. A BRIEF HISTORY OF BEETLE STUDY 13 LeConte examined some ofthe earliest California beetle specimens available to eastern entomologists.These speci- mens included those collected by Dr.Charles Pickering and Mr.Titian Peale,both ship’s naturalists that visited California in 1841 as part ofan exploratory expedition conducted by the U.S.Navy under the command of Captain Charles Wilkes. Other specimens were acquired from eastern private collec- tors such as J.Wittick and J.Child who had both visited the area around Sacramento.LeConte also examined material col- lected by the Russians Eschscholtz and Mannerheim,sent to him by Baron Chaudoir and Colonel Motschulsky.LeConte recognized early on that California constituted a unique zoo- logical region based on the fact that many ofits beetles were found nowhere else in nature. LeConte’s Classification ofthe Coleoptera ofNorth America appeared in 1861 and 1862,but the Civil War curbed further publications on beetles until 1873. During the interim, LeConte served as an Army Medical Corps surgeon with the California volunteers in the infantry during the Civil War from 1862 to 1866.Once again he took this opportunity to collect many new and unusual species ofbeetles in the state. In 1878,LeConte was appointed assistant director ofthe United States Mint in Philadelphia,a position he held until his death in 1883, the same year his final publication ap- peared.It was a revision ofhis earlier work on the classifica- tion ofthe Coleoptera,written with his student and longtime friend and colleague,G.H.Horn.LeConte’s collection ofbee- tles,including hundreds ofCalifornia specimens,now resides in Harvard University’s Museum ofComparative Zoology in Cambridge,Massachusetts. George Henry Horn (1840 to 1897) Born and educated in Philadelphia,George Henry Horn (fig. 4) received his medical degree from the University ofPennsyl- vania in 1861.His first paper on beetles appeared the same 14 A BRIEF HISTORY OF BEETLE STUDY Figure 4. George Henry Horn (1840 to 1897) arrived in California during the Civil War and collected beetles throughout the state. Upon LeConte’s death in 1883, Horn became the preeminent coleopterist in North Amer- ica. Photo from Skinner (1898). year and attracted the attention ofJ.L.LeConte,who sought him out.The two men soon became friends and remained collaborators for more than 20 years. Horn arrived in California during the Civil War, where Governor Leland Stanford commissioned him assistant sur- geon in the Second Calvary,California Volunteers.He took his oath at Camp Independence in 1863.Like LeConte,he took the opportunity to collect beetles throughout much of California,as well as in parts ofArizona and Nevada.During his three years in the West,Horn collected at Fort Tejon,Fort Yuma (on the Colorado River,Arizona),Fort Crook (Shasta County),Surprise Valley (Modoc County),Warner’s Ranch (San Diego County),and the Sacramento Valley.In 1865 he achieved the rank of major and eventually returned to Philadelphia in 1866.There he established his medical prac- tice and became an obstetrician. With a thriving practice,Horn’s entomological pursuits were conducted in his spare time.He used several characters to describe and distinguish species and preferred to publish his findings as monographs so that all of the species in a A BRIEF HISTORY OF BEETLE STUDY 15 group known to him could be identified.He published a total of 265 papers on beetles,creating 154 new genera and de- scribing over 1,600 new species, many of which are repre- sented in California.Upon LeConte’s death in 1883,Horn be- came the preeminent coleopterist in North America. Horn traveled once again to California in spring of1893, where he met with other California coleopterists,including H.C.Fall,and was introduced at the May meeting ofthe Cali- fornia Academy ofSciences in San Francisco. Thomas Lincoln Casey (1857 to 1925) Thomas Lincoln Casey (fig.5) was born into a military family in West Point,New York.He entered the United States Mili- tary Academy and graduated with honors in 1879. He re- ceived a commission in the Engineer Corps ofthe U.S.Army as an engineer and retired in 1912 with the rank ofcolonel.He was stationed in South Africa and various parts ofthe United States,including California from 1885 to 1886.While in Cali- fornia,Casey collected from San Diego to Eureka and secured a wealth ofmaterial.He preferred to work primarily on ob- scure families ofbeetles,however,and many ofhis species are unfamiliar to many entomologists. Although he collected many beetles himself,Casey amassed most of his remarkable collection by purchasing specimens from other collectors.His collection and library grew so large that Casey was forced to rent two apartments in Washington, D.C.,one for living in and the other for his beetles,papers, and books.His library and collection,including thousands of California beetles,are now part ofthe National Museum of Natural History in Washington,D.C. Casey published numerous papers on engineering,con- chology,and astronomy.His first papers on beetles appeared in 1884. During the next 40 years Casey described nearly 10,000 new species,publishing almost 9,000 pages on their taxonomy and biology. 16 A BRIEF HISTORY OF BEETLE STUDY Figure 5. Thomas Lincoln Casey (1857 to 1925) collected from San Diego to Eureka in 1885 to 1886 and secured a wealth of material. Photo courtesy of the Depart- ment of Entomology, Na- tional Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian In- stitution. Although Colonel Casey made one ofthe greatest contribu- tions to the taxonomy ofthe Coleoptera by any one man,much of his work has been soundly criticized.Many of his beetles have been determined by others to be synonymous with previ- ously described species.Unlike his predecessors who used hand lenses to examine specimens,Casey used a binocular micro- scope with good light and was thus able to see details missed by others.He refused to consult other collections,preferring in- stead to examine specimens found in his own collection. Casey frequently authored new species based on single specimens,distinguishing them from existing species by triv- ial details.For example,Casey described no less than 19 dif- ferent species and several additional subspecies names for one ofthe largest beetles in California,the California Prionus (Prionus californicus).He seldom took into account the varia- tion among species populations. Many of his descriptions were of individual variants rather than valid species.Sadly, subsequent coleopterists have developed a general mistrust of Casey’s publications. A BRIEF HISTORY OF BEETLE STUDY 17 Figure 6. Henry Clinton Fall (1862 to 1939) was Califor- nia’s first resident to make sig- nificant contributions to the study of the state’s beetles. He assembled one of the finest pri- vate beetle collections in North America, representing 20,000 species. Photo from Linsley (1940), courtesy of the Pacific Coast Entomological Society. Henry Clinton Fall (1862 to 1939) Henry Clinton Fall (fig.6) was California’s first resident to make significant contributions to the study ofthe state’s bee- tles,inspiring future generations of coleopterists,including E.C.Van Dyke and F.E.Blaisdell.Born in Farmington,New Hampshire,Fall received his bachelor’s and honorary doc- toral degrees in science from Dartmouth. Prompted by ill health,Fall moved to southern California in 1889 after a brief stint teaching high school mathematics in Chicago.He taught physical sciences at Pasadena High School,serving as the head ofthe science department there for nearly 25 years. Inspired by a visit from G.H.Horn,Fall’s first scientific ar- ticle on beetles appeared in 1893.Subsequent papers included revisions ofvarious beetle families and lists ofspecies known from the California Channel Islands and southern California. Fall was one ofthe first researchers to work on insects,partic- ularly Coleoptera,ofthe Channel Islands.After retiring from teaching in 1917,Fall moved to Tyngsboro,Massachusetts, where he continued to publish, curate, and identify speci- 18 A BRIEF HISTORY OF BEETLE STUDY mens sent to him for determination.His 144th and last publi- cation appeared in 1937. At the time ofhis death,Fall had assembled what was up to that time the finest private beetle collection in North Amer- ica. Reported to contain 200,000 specimens representing 20,000 species,his collection now resides appropriately next to those ofLeConte and Horn in the Museum ofComparative Zoology at Harvard University. Frank Ellsworth Blaisdell (1862 to 1947) Born in Pittsfield,New Hampshire,Frank Ellsworth Blaisdell (fig.7) moved with his family to San Francisco in 1870.The following year Blaisdell and his two younger brothers were stricken with scarlet fever,and only Frank survived.His poor health prompted his family to move to San Diego the same year.In 1875 the family moved to a ranch north ofSan Diego near Poway. Largely self-taught and without the benefit of a modern high school or college education,Blaisdell enrolled in Cooper Figure 7. Frank Ellsworth Blais- dell (1862 to 1947) grew up in San Diego County. After his re- tirement as a physician, Blaisdell worked on beetles at the Califor- nia Academy of Sciences from 1924 to 1945, where his collec- tion of some 200,000 beetles now resides. Photo from Van Dyke (1947), courtesy of the Pacific Coast Entomological Society. A BRIEF HISTORY OF BEETLE STUDY 19 Medical College,San Francisco,and received a doctor ofmedi- cine degree in 1889.He moved to San Diego to establish a med- ical practice but was unsuccessful.He returned to northern California in 1892,where he settled as a physician with his wife and son in the mining camp ofMokelumne Hill.In 1906 he began working at Cooper Medical College as a demonstrator and retired in 1927 as Professor ofSurgery in charge ofSurgical Pathology.After his retirement,Blaisdell worked on darkling (Tenebrionidae) and soft-winged flower (Melyridae) beetles at the California Academy ofSciences from 1924 to 1945,where his collection ofsome 200,000 beetles now resides. Edwin Cooper Van Dyke (1869 to 1952) Edwin Cooper Van Dyke (fig.8) was California’s first home- grown coleopterist.Born in Oakland,his family moved to Los Angeles in 1885,where his budding interest in botany and in- sectsflourished.His first collecting trip was to Yosemite Valley in 1890,which he reached by pack train.Van Dyke earned his bachelor’s degree in 1889 from the University ofCalifornia, Berkeley,and his doctorate in medicine from Cooper Medical Figure 8. Edwin Cooper Van Dyke (1869 to 1952) was an outstand- ing authority on the beetles of the Pacific States. He was also an ex- pert on forest pests and the distri- bution of insects in North America. Photo from Essig (1953), courtesy of the Pacific Coast Entomological Society. 20 A BRIEF HISTORY OF BEETLE STUDY College in 1895.After serving as a physician in several hospi- tals in San Francisco and Baltimore,Van Dyke became the Physician in Charge at the Good Samaritan Mission in San Francisco from 1903 to 1912,a position he held while attend- ing to his own medical practice.In 1913,Van Dyke returned to his first love,insects.He accepted the appointment ofAs- sistant in Entomology at the University ofCalifornia,Berke- ley and became a full professor in 1927. Van Dyke was an outstanding authority on the beetles of the Pacific States and made substantial contributions to the study ofnumerous families.He was also an expert on forest pests and the distribution of insects in North America.Van Dyke was an inspirational teacher whose door was always open to students.A tireless,enthusiastic,and conscientious collector,he was always mindful ofpreserving the habitat to ensure that collecting grounds remained fruitful for subse- quent collectors.His collection of 200,000 beetles was pre- sented to the California Academy ofSciences in 1924. Hugh Bosdin Leech (1910 to 1990) Born in Kamloops,British Columbia,Hugh Bosdin Leech’s (fig.9) early years were spent on the family farm in Salmon Arm,British Columbia.His interest in natural history,espe- cially beetles,was apparent from an early age.He published his first paper in 1930,reporting a new host record for the long- horn beetle (Phymatodes vulneratus).Leech earned his bache- lor’s degree from the University ofBritish Columbia and mas- ter’s degree from the University ofCalifornia,Berkeley. From 1930 to 1947 Leech worked in the Forest Entomol- ogy Laboratory in Vernon when not attending university.In 1947 he joined the staffofthe California Academy ofSciences, where he became the Associate Curator ofColeoptera.Over the years he reorganized the beetle collection several times, processing tens ofthousands ofspecimens each month from A BRIEF HISTORY OF BEETLE STUDY 21 Figure 9. Hugh Bosdin Leech (1910 to 1990) joined the staff of the California Academy of Sciences, where he became the Associate Curator of Coleoptera. He inspired many of today’s coleopterists. Photo from Kavanaugh and Arnaud (1981), courtesy of the Pacific Coast Entomological Society. collectors and shipping them on loan to researchers around the world.Leech reserved his days at the Academy for corre- spondence, curating, and visitors, conducting his research and writing in the evenings at home in “The Beetle Room.” Leech was extremely influential and inspired many coleopter- ists living and working in California and elsewhere. Earle Gorton Linsley (1910 to 2000) Earle Gorton Linsley (fig.10) was born in Oakland and devel- oped his interest in insects as a child under the influence of E.C.Van Dyke and others.He attended the University ofCal- ifornia at Berkeley,where he submitted his dissertation on the longhorn beetles of California. After graduation Linsley joined the Berkeley faculty as an instructor in entomology, became a full professor in 1953,and retired in 1973.He be- came one of the world’s leading authorities on longhorns. Linsley’s monumental work, The Cerambycidae of North 22 A BRIEF HISTORY OF BEETLE STUDY Figure 10. Earle Gorton Linsley (1910 to 2000) was one of the world’s leading authorities on longhorn beetles (Cerambyci- dae). He was also an authority on rain beetles (Pleocomidae), as well as the biology, ecology, and taxonomy of native bees. Photo courtesy of John Chemsak. America,completed in 1997 with J.A.Chemsak,stands as the only work to cover the entire American fauna.He was also an authority on the biology, ecology, and taxonomy of native bees.He published more than 400 books and articles.And, like several other California coleopterists,Linsley’s first,and most enduring,entomological pursuit was rain beetles.He described 12 species or subspecies and established the taxo- nomic foundation for the group. The Future of Beetle Studies in California The history ofbeetle study in California is still being written. In spite ofmore than 200 years ofexploration,many ofCali- fornia’s regions remain poorly sampled or unexplored. As museum budgets continue to shrink,the burden of collect- ing,cataloging,and describing California’s beetle fauna will depend on close cooperation between dedicated amateurs and skilled professional entomologists.There is still much to be done. A BRIEF HISTORY OF BEETLE STUDY 23