Source: https://accidentallywesanderson.com/places/palacio-de-aguas-corrientes/,
Title: Palacio de Aguas Corrientes | Accidentally Wes Anderson
Words: 1440

================================================================================

Palacio de Aguas Corrientes, or Palace of the Running Waters, is Buenos Aires’ stunning water-pumping station. In the late nineteenth century, population growth and several epidemics pressured the city to introduce a modern running-water system. Such a luxury, it seems, called for the construction of a palace—one that would take up the length of an entire city block. Work began in 1887 and was completed seven years later. Designed by a Swedish-Argentine architect, the building is garnished by hundreds of thousands of imported tiles and glazed bricks, and topped by a roof emblazoned with fourteen emblems representing each Argentine province. Such extravagant splendor is only fitting for the marvel that exists inside. Within its walls sits an immense iron structure that hydrates the city. British engineer John Bateman first provided designs, with tanks that span three floors and can hold upwards of seventy-two million liters of water. Revered for both facade and function, the Palacio de Aguas Corrientes was designated a national historic monument in 1987. Today, it is owned by Buenos Aires’ water company, garnering it the serviceable, if uninspired, nickname of the Water Company Palace. Visitors are welcome to take a refreshing tour of the pumping station—tissues are encouraged, as the building’s breathtaking architecture, accompanied by lessons in the history of its grandeur and lifesaving efficiency, is still capable of inspiring waterworks. 📖 Full Story Page 71 Know more? Share with the community! Submit Your Image Login/Sign Up. Create an account to comment! Login/Sign Up. View on Map -34.6003241, -58.394513 Brown Classic Facades Museum AWA Sites Nearby La Casa Rosada Buenos Aires, Argentina C.1580 Basilica of Our Lady of Lujan Buenos Aires, Argentina C.1935 Campo Argentino del Polo Buenos Aires, Argentina C.1928 Surprise Me! Palacio de Aguas Corrientes, or Palace of the Running Waters, is Buenos Aires’ stunning water-pumping station. In the late nineteenth century, population growth and several epidemics pressured the city to introduce a modern running-water system. Such a luxury, it seems, called for the construction of a palace—one that would take up the length of an entire city block. Work began in 1887 and was completed seven years later. Designed by a Swedish-Argentine architect, the building is garnished by hundreds of thousands of imported tiles and glazed bricks, and topped by a roof emblazoned with fourteen emblems representing each Argentine province. Such extravagant splendor is only fitting for the marvel that exists inside. Within its walls sits an immense iron structure that hydrates the city. British engineer John Bateman first provided designs, with tanks that span three floors and can hold upwards of seventy-two million liters of water. Revered for both facade and function, the Palacio de Aguas Corrientes was designated a national historic monument in 1987. Today, it is owned by Buenos Aires’ water company, garnering it the serviceable, if uninspired, nickname of the Water Company Palace. Visitors are welcome to take a refreshing tour of the pumping station—tissues are encouraged, as the building’s breathtaking architecture, accompanied by lessons in the history of its grandeur and lifesaving efficiency, is still capable of inspiring waterworks. 📖 Full Story Page 71 Know more? Share with the community! Submit Your Image Login/Sign Up. Create an account to comment! Login/Sign Up. View on Map -34.6003241, -58.394513 Brown Classic Facades Museum AWA Sites Nearby La Casa Rosada Buenos Aires, Argentina C.1580 Basilica of Our Lady of Lujan Buenos Aires, Argentina C.1935 Campo Argentino del Polo Buenos Aires, Argentina C.1928 Surprise Me! Palacio de Aguas Corrientes, or Palace of the Running Waters, is Buenos Aires’ stunning water-pumping station. In the late nineteenth century, population growth and several epidemics pressured the city to introduce a modern running-water system. Such a luxury, it seems, called for the construction of a palace—one that would take up the length of an entire city block. Work began in 1887 and was completed seven years later. Designed by a Swedish-Argentine architect, the building is garnished by hundreds of thousands of imported tiles and glazed bricks, and topped by a roof emblazoned with fourteen emblems representing each Argentine province. Such extravagant splendor is only fitting for the marvel that exists inside. Within its walls sits an immense iron structure that hydrates the city. British engineer John Bateman first provided designs, with tanks that span three floors and can hold upwards of seventy-two million liters of water. Revered for both facade and function, the Palacio de Aguas Corrientes was designated a national historic monument in 1987. Today, it is owned by Buenos Aires’ water company, garnering it the serviceable, if uninspired, nickname of the Water Company Palace. Visitors are welcome to take a refreshing tour of the pumping station—tissues are encouraged, as the building’s breathtaking architecture, accompanied by lessons in the history of its grandeur and lifesaving efficiency, is still capable of inspiring waterworks. 📖 Full Story Page 71 Know more? Share with the community! Submit Your Image Login/Sign Up. Create an account to comment! Login/Sign Up. Palacio de Aguas Corrientes, or Palace of the Running Waters, is Buenos Aires’ stunning water-pumping station. In the late nineteenth century, population growth and several epidemics pressured the city to introduce a modern running-water system. Such a luxury, it seems, called for the construction of a palace—one that would take up the length of an entire city block. Work began in 1887 and was completed seven years later. Designed by a Swedish-Argentine architect, the building is garnished by hundreds of thousands of imported tiles and glazed bricks, and topped by a roof emblazoned with fourteen emblems representing each Argentine province. Such extravagant splendor is only fitting for the marvel that exists inside. Within its walls sits an immense iron structure that hydrates the city. British engineer John Bateman first provided designs, with tanks that span three floors and can hold upwards of seventy-two million liters of water. Revered for both facade and function, the Palacio de Aguas Corrientes was designated a national historic monument in 1987. Today, it is owned by Buenos Aires’ water company, garnering it the serviceable, if uninspired, nickname of the Water Company Palace. Visitors are welcome to take a refreshing tour of the pumping station—tissues are encouraged, as the building’s breathtaking architecture, accompanied by lessons in the history of its grandeur and lifesaving efficiency, is still capable of inspiring waterworks. 📖 Full Story Page 71 Palacio de Aguas Corrientes, or Palace of the Running Waters, is Buenos Aires’ stunning water-pumping station. In the late nineteenth century, population growth and several epidemics pressured the city to introduce a modern running-water system. Such a luxury, it seems, called for the construction of a palace—one that would take up the length of an entire city block. Work began in 1887 and was completed seven years later. Designed by a Swedish-Argentine architect, the building is garnished by hundreds of thousands of imported tiles and glazed bricks, and topped by a roof emblazoned with fourteen emblems representing each Argentine province. Such extravagant splendor is only fitting for the marvel that exists inside. Within its walls sits an immense iron structure that hydrates the city. British engineer John Bateman first provided designs, with tanks that span three floors and can hold upwards of seventy-two million liters of water. Revered for both facade and function, the Palacio de Aguas Corrientes was designated a national historic monument in 1987. Today, it is owned by Buenos Aires’ water company, garnering it the serviceable, if uninspired, nickname of the Water Company Palace. Visitors are welcome to take a refreshing tour of the pumping station—tissues are encouraged, as the building’s breathtaking architecture, accompanied by lessons in the history of its grandeur and lifesaving efficiency, is still capable of inspiring waterworks. 📖 Full Story Page 71 Know more? Share with the community! Submit Your Image Login/Sign Up. Know more? Share with the community! Submit Your Image Know more? Share with the community! Login/Sign Up. Login/Sign Up. Create an account to comment! Login/Sign Up. View on Map -34.6003241, -58.394513 Brown Classic Facades Museum AWA Sites Nearby La Casa Rosada Buenos Aires, Argentina C.1580 Basilica of Our Lady of Lujan Buenos Aires, Argentina C.1935 Campo Argentino del Polo Buenos Aires, Argentina C.1928 Surprise Me! View on Map Brown Classic Facades Museum AWA Sites Nearby La Casa Rosada Buenos Aires, Argentina C.1580 Basilica of Our Lady of Lujan Buenos Aires, Argentina C.1935 Campo Argentino del Polo Buenos Aires, Argentina C.1928 AWA Sites Nearby La Casa Rosada Buenos Aires, Argentina C.1580 La Casa Rosada Buenos Aires, Argentina Basilica of Our Lady of Lujan Buenos Aires, Argentina C.1935 Basilica of Our Lady of Lujan Buenos Aires, Argentina Campo Argentino del Polo Buenos Aires, Argentina C.1928 Campo Argentino del Polo Buenos Aires, Argentina Surprise Me!