Source: https://bioshock.fandom.com/wiki/Magical_Melodies
Title: Magical Melodies | BioShock Wiki | Fandom
Words: 3266

================================================================================

in: Columbia Businesses, Columbia Entertainment, The Founders Party, Downtown Emporia English Deutsch Magical Melodies Edit Edit source History Purge Talk (5) in: Columbia Businesses, Columbia Entertainment, The Founders Party, Downtown Emporia English Deutsch in: Columbia Businesses, Columbia Entertainment, The Founders Party, Downtown Emporia in: Columbia Businesses, Columbia Entertainment, The Founders Party, Downtown Emporia English Deutsch English Deutsch Magical Melodies Edit Edit source History Purge Talk (5) Magical Melodies Magical Melodies Edit Edit source History Purge Talk (5) Edit source History Purge Talk (5) Edit source History Purge Talk (5) Edit source "There is something more powerful than each of us, a combination of our efforts, a Great Chain of industry that unites us. But it is only when we struggle in our own interest that the chain pulls society in the right direction." - Andrew Ryan This article falls within the scope of the BioShock Wiki:Businesses Project. This project is dedicated to improving the articles about Rapture and Columbia's many businesses. Would you kindly help the BioShock Wiki by volunteering on the project page? Magical Melodies. “His many songs subjugate the charts! Can all this amazing music come from just one man?!” ― "Magical Melodies Sweep Columbia!"[src] Magical Melodies is a studio, music publisher, and record label owned by Albert Fink. The main studio is located in the Market District in Downtown Emporia. Under the company, Fink has published several very successful songs, catering to the whims of the Columbian public. Contents 1 Known Publications 2 BioShock Infinite 3 Gallery 4 Gallery 5 Behind the Scenes 6 References Known Publications[] See also: BioShock Infinite Licensed Soundtrack Title Arrangement "God Only Knows" barbershop "Girls Just Want to Have Fun" calliope "Everybody Wants to Rule the World" vocal with piano "Tainted Love" vocal with piano "Shiny Happy People" vocal with orchestra "Fortunate Son" a cappella BioShock Infinite[] Main article: BioShock Infinite In reality, songs were plagiarized from the future due to Albert Fink's discovery of a Tear inside his studio.[1] When the player discovers this Tear, Cyndi Lauper's "Girls Just Want to Have Fun" can be heard playing from within. Magical Melodies was heavily damaged during the Vox Populi attack on Emporia. Albert's body can be found right near the Tear. The phonograph plays another of his plagiarized works in the form of a period-correct version of "Everybody Wants to Rule the World" by Tears for Fears. Gallery[] The record label found on phonographs throughout Columbia.A poster for "God Only Knows," a song provided to Columbia through Albert Fink.A variation of the poster that appears in Elizabeth's bedroom. Gallery[] Bioshock Infinite Girls Just Wanna Have Fun Easter EggGirls Just Wanna Have Fun. Behind the Scenes[] The record label is heavily inspired by the label design of an Improved Berliner Gram-O-Phone Record featuring "Ah! La Femme Il N'Y A Que Ça" by Mons. A. Fertinel, recorded in Montreal, Canada. Apart from the label name, they are identical right down to the spindle marks. The name on the record refers to Emile Berliner, best known for inventing the disc record gramophone. His invention directly competed with Thomas Edison's cylinder phonograph, eventually dominating the format war because of its ease of manufacture. The Voxophone in-game menu features an altered Magical Melodies record label. In a pre-release gameplay teaser,[2] a stand can be seen featuring several white and pink record sleeves next to the barbershop quartet. This was removed in the final version of the game. The sleeve appears with an altered version of Magical Melodies logo as well as two modified variations of the Voxophone advertisement. It was directly inspired by the pink paper record sleeves used for 1930s English dance band recordings manufactured by His Master's Voice, Parlophone, and coincidentally, Columbia Records.[3] Removed record sleeve design. The Columbian Archeological Society features an unlockable Kinetoscope titled "Magical Melodies Sweep Columbia". The background score is a transposed excerpt from “The Easy Winners”, a composition by Scott Joplin. It also features the cut record sleeve in the foreground (albeit in black in white). Sheet music inspiration. The advertisement for "God Only Knows" is based off of a 1912 sheet music cover for "Be My Little Baby Bumble Bee".[4] The sheet music found in the studio is "Allegro for Flute Clock" by Ludwig van Beethoven. It can conventionally be played by a flute trio, but it was intended for a Flötenuhr or Spielühr, otherwise known as a mechanical pipe organ. Elizabeth studies the same sheet music in her Tower. References[] ↑ Jeremiah Fink's Voxophone: Changing My Tune ↑ IGN: The Music of BioShock Infinite ↑ 78rpm Record Sleeves ↑ Be My Little Baby Bumble Bee Sheet music v·d·eLocations and Businesses in Downtown Emporia Financial DistrictBank of the Prophet · Founders Books · Parker & Co. Excelsior Brand Canned Meats · Patriot's Pride Market DistrictLutece Labs · Harper's Grocery · Parker & Co. Excelsior Brand Canned Meats · Hudson's Fine Clothing · Wilson Bros. & Company Bottling Works · Springfield · Patriot's Pride · Curt's Groceries & MeatsHarmony LaneCunningham Studios · Emporia TowersDowntown EmporiaVictory Square · Memorial Gardens · Magical Melodies · Art Gallery · Cigar Shop Clash in the CloudsEmporia Arcade "There is something more powerful than each of us, a combination of our efforts, a Great Chain of industry that unites us. But it is only when we struggle in our own interest that the chain pulls society in the right direction." - Andrew Ryan This article falls within the scope of the BioShock Wiki:Businesses Project. This project is dedicated to improving the articles about Rapture and Columbia's many businesses. Would you kindly help the BioShock Wiki by volunteering on the project page? Magical Melodies. “His many songs subjugate the charts! Can all this amazing music come from just one man?!” ― "Magical Melodies Sweep Columbia!"[src] Magical Melodies is a studio, music publisher, and record label owned by Albert Fink. The main studio is located in the Market District in Downtown Emporia. Under the company, Fink has published several very successful songs, catering to the whims of the Columbian public. Contents 1 Known Publications 2 BioShock Infinite 3 Gallery 4 Gallery 5 Behind the Scenes 6 References Known Publications[] See also: BioShock Infinite Licensed Soundtrack Title Arrangement "God Only Knows" barbershop "Girls Just Want to Have Fun" calliope "Everybody Wants to Rule the World" vocal with piano "Tainted Love" vocal with piano "Shiny Happy People" vocal with orchestra "Fortunate Son" a cappella BioShock Infinite[] Main article: BioShock Infinite In reality, songs were plagiarized from the future due to Albert Fink's discovery of a Tear inside his studio.[1] When the player discovers this Tear, Cyndi Lauper's "Girls Just Want to Have Fun" can be heard playing from within. Magical Melodies was heavily damaged during the Vox Populi attack on Emporia. Albert's body can be found right near the Tear. The phonograph plays another of his plagiarized works in the form of a period-correct version of "Everybody Wants to Rule the World" by Tears for Fears. Gallery[] The record label found on phonographs throughout Columbia.A poster for "God Only Knows," a song provided to Columbia through Albert Fink.A variation of the poster that appears in Elizabeth's bedroom. Gallery[] Bioshock Infinite Girls Just Wanna Have Fun Easter EggGirls Just Wanna Have Fun. Behind the Scenes[] The record label is heavily inspired by the label design of an Improved Berliner Gram-O-Phone Record featuring "Ah! La Femme Il N'Y A Que Ça" by Mons. A. Fertinel, recorded in Montreal, Canada. Apart from the label name, they are identical right down to the spindle marks. The name on the record refers to Emile Berliner, best known for inventing the disc record gramophone. His invention directly competed with Thomas Edison's cylinder phonograph, eventually dominating the format war because of its ease of manufacture. The Voxophone in-game menu features an altered Magical Melodies record label. In a pre-release gameplay teaser,[2] a stand can be seen featuring several white and pink record sleeves next to the barbershop quartet. This was removed in the final version of the game. The sleeve appears with an altered version of Magical Melodies logo as well as two modified variations of the Voxophone advertisement. It was directly inspired by the pink paper record sleeves used for 1930s English dance band recordings manufactured by His Master's Voice, Parlophone, and coincidentally, Columbia Records.[3] Removed record sleeve design. The Columbian Archeological Society features an unlockable Kinetoscope titled "Magical Melodies Sweep Columbia". The background score is a transposed excerpt from “The Easy Winners”, a composition by Scott Joplin. It also features the cut record sleeve in the foreground (albeit in black in white). Sheet music inspiration. The advertisement for "God Only Knows" is based off of a 1912 sheet music cover for "Be My Little Baby Bumble Bee".[4] The sheet music found in the studio is "Allegro for Flute Clock" by Ludwig van Beethoven. It can conventionally be played by a flute trio, but it was intended for a Flötenuhr or Spielühr, otherwise known as a mechanical pipe organ. Elizabeth studies the same sheet music in her Tower. References[] ↑ Jeremiah Fink's Voxophone: Changing My Tune ↑ IGN: The Music of BioShock Infinite ↑ 78rpm Record Sleeves ↑ Be My Little Baby Bumble Bee Sheet music v·d·eLocations and Businesses in Downtown Emporia Financial DistrictBank of the Prophet · Founders Books · Parker & Co. Excelsior Brand Canned Meats · Patriot's Pride Market DistrictLutece Labs · Harper's Grocery · Parker & Co. Excelsior Brand Canned Meats · Hudson's Fine Clothing · Wilson Bros. & Company Bottling Works · Springfield · Patriot's Pride · Curt's Groceries & MeatsHarmony LaneCunningham Studios · Emporia TowersDowntown EmporiaVictory Square · Memorial Gardens · Magical Melodies · Art Gallery · Cigar Shop Clash in the CloudsEmporia Arcade "There is something more powerful than each of us, a combination of our efforts, a Great Chain of industry that unites us. But it is only when we struggle in our own interest that the chain pulls society in the right direction." - Andrew Ryan This article falls within the scope of the BioShock Wiki:Businesses Project. This project is dedicated to improving the articles about Rapture and Columbia's many businesses. Would you kindly help the BioShock Wiki by volunteering on the project page? Magical Melodies. “His many songs subjugate the charts! Can all this amazing music come from just one man?!” ― "Magical Melodies Sweep Columbia!"[src] Magical Melodies is a studio, music publisher, and record label owned by Albert Fink. The main studio is located in the Market District in Downtown Emporia. Under the company, Fink has published several very successful songs, catering to the whims of the Columbian public. Contents 1 Known Publications 2 BioShock Infinite 3 Gallery 4 Gallery 5 Behind the Scenes 6 References Known Publications[] See also: BioShock Infinite Licensed Soundtrack Title Arrangement "God Only Knows" barbershop "Girls Just Want to Have Fun" calliope "Everybody Wants to Rule the World" vocal with piano "Tainted Love" vocal with piano "Shiny Happy People" vocal with orchestra "Fortunate Son" a cappella BioShock Infinite[] Main article: BioShock Infinite In reality, songs were plagiarized from the future due to Albert Fink's discovery of a Tear inside his studio.[1] When the player discovers this Tear, Cyndi Lauper's "Girls Just Want to Have Fun" can be heard playing from within. Magical Melodies was heavily damaged during the Vox Populi attack on Emporia. Albert's body can be found right near the Tear. The phonograph plays another of his plagiarized works in the form of a period-correct version of "Everybody Wants to Rule the World" by Tears for Fears. Gallery[] The record label found on phonographs throughout Columbia.A poster for "God Only Knows," a song provided to Columbia through Albert Fink.A variation of the poster that appears in Elizabeth's bedroom. Gallery[] Bioshock Infinite Girls Just Wanna Have Fun Easter EggGirls Just Wanna Have Fun. Behind the Scenes[] The record label is heavily inspired by the label design of an Improved Berliner Gram-O-Phone Record featuring "Ah! La Femme Il N'Y A Que Ça" by Mons. A. Fertinel, recorded in Montreal, Canada. Apart from the label name, they are identical right down to the spindle marks. The name on the record refers to Emile Berliner, best known for inventing the disc record gramophone. His invention directly competed with Thomas Edison's cylinder phonograph, eventually dominating the format war because of its ease of manufacture. The Voxophone in-game menu features an altered Magical Melodies record label. In a pre-release gameplay teaser,[2] a stand can be seen featuring several white and pink record sleeves next to the barbershop quartet. This was removed in the final version of the game. The sleeve appears with an altered version of Magical Melodies logo as well as two modified variations of the Voxophone advertisement. It was directly inspired by the pink paper record sleeves used for 1930s English dance band recordings manufactured by His Master's Voice, Parlophone, and coincidentally, Columbia Records.[3] Removed record sleeve design. The Columbian Archeological Society features an unlockable Kinetoscope titled "Magical Melodies Sweep Columbia". The background score is a transposed excerpt from “The Easy Winners”, a composition by Scott Joplin. It also features the cut record sleeve in the foreground (albeit in black in white). Sheet music inspiration. The advertisement for "God Only Knows" is based off of a 1912 sheet music cover for "Be My Little Baby Bumble Bee".[4] The sheet music found in the studio is "Allegro for Flute Clock" by Ludwig van Beethoven. It can conventionally be played by a flute trio, but it was intended for a Flötenuhr or Spielühr, otherwise known as a mechanical pipe organ. Elizabeth studies the same sheet music in her Tower. References[] ↑ Jeremiah Fink's Voxophone: Changing My Tune ↑ IGN: The Music of BioShock Infinite ↑ 78rpm Record Sleeves ↑ Be My Little Baby Bumble Bee Sheet music v·d·eLocations and Businesses in Downtown Emporia Financial DistrictBank of the Prophet · Founders Books · Parker & Co. Excelsior Brand Canned Meats · Patriot's Pride Market DistrictLutece Labs · Harper's Grocery · Parker & Co. Excelsior Brand Canned Meats · Hudson's Fine Clothing · Wilson Bros. & Company Bottling Works · Springfield · Patriot's Pride · Curt's Groceries & MeatsHarmony LaneCunningham Studios · Emporia TowersDowntown EmporiaVictory Square · Memorial Gardens · Magical Melodies · Art Gallery · Cigar Shop Clash in the CloudsEmporia Arcade "There is something more powerful than each of us, a combination of our efforts, a Great Chain of industry that unites us. But it is only when we struggle in our own interest that the chain pulls society in the right direction." - Andrew Ryan This article falls within the scope of the BioShock Wiki:Businesses Project. This project is dedicated to improving the articles about Rapture and Columbia's many businesses. Would you kindly help the BioShock Wiki by volunteering on the project page? Magical Melodies. Magical Melodies is a studio, music publisher, and record label owned by Albert Fink. The main studio is located in the Market District in Downtown Emporia. Under the company, Fink has published several very successful songs, catering to the whims of the Columbian public. Contents 1 Known Publications 2 BioShock Infinite 3 Gallery 4 Gallery 5 Behind the Scenes 6 References 1 Known Publications 2 BioShock Infinite 5 Behind the Scenes 6 References Known Publications[] BioShock Infinite[] In reality, songs were plagiarized from the future due to Albert Fink's discovery of a Tear inside his studio.[1] When the player discovers this Tear, Cyndi Lauper's "Girls Just Want to Have Fun" can be heard playing from within. Magical Melodies was heavily damaged during the Vox Populi attack on Emporia. Albert's body can be found right near the Tear. The phonograph plays another of his plagiarized works in the form of a period-correct version of "Everybody Wants to Rule the World" by Tears for Fears. The record label found on phonographs throughout Columbia.A poster for "God Only Knows," a song provided to Columbia through Albert Fink.A variation of the poster that appears in Elizabeth's bedroom. The record label found on phonographs throughout Columbia. The record label found on phonographs throughout Columbia. A poster for "God Only Knows," a song provided to Columbia through Albert Fink. A poster for "God Only Knows," a song provided to Columbia through Albert Fink. A variation of the poster that appears in Elizabeth's bedroom. A variation of the poster that appears in Elizabeth's bedroom. Bioshock Infinite Girls Just Wanna Have Fun Easter EggGirls Just Wanna Have Fun. Bioshock Infinite Girls Just Wanna Have Fun Easter EggGirls Just Wanna Have Fun. Bioshock Infinite Girls Just Wanna Have Fun Easter Egg Girls Just Wanna Have Fun. Behind the Scenes[] The record label is heavily inspired by the label design of an Improved Berliner Gram-O-Phone Record featuring "Ah! La Femme Il N'Y A Que Ça" by Mons. A. Fertinel, recorded in Montreal, Canada. Apart from the label name, they are identical right down to the spindle marks. The name on the record refers to Emile Berliner, best known for inventing the disc record gramophone. His invention directly competed with Thomas Edison's cylinder phonograph, eventually dominating the format war because of its ease of manufacture. The Voxophone in-game menu features an altered Magical Melodies record label. The name on the record refers to Emile Berliner, best known for inventing the disc record gramophone. His invention directly competed with Thomas Edison's cylinder phonograph, eventually dominating the format war because of its ease of manufacture. The Voxophone in-game menu features an altered Magical Melodies record label. In a pre-release gameplay teaser,[2] a stand can be seen featuring several white and pink record sleeves next to the barbershop quartet. This was removed in the final version of the game. The sleeve appears with an altered version of Magical Melodies logo as well as two modified variations of the Voxophone advertisement. It was directly inspired by the pink paper record sleeves used for 1930s English dance band recordings manufactured by His Master's Voice, Parlophone, and coincidentally, Columbia Records.[3] The sleeve appears with an altered version of Magical Melodies logo as well as two modified variations of the Voxophone advertisement. It was directly inspired by the pink paper record sleeves used for 1930s English dance band recordings manufactured by His Master's Voice, Parlophone, and coincidentally, Columbia Records.[3] Removed record sleeve design. The Columbian Archeological Society features an unlockable Kinetoscope titled "Magical Melodies Sweep Columbia". The background score is a transposed excerpt from “The Easy Winners”, a composition by Scott Joplin. It also features the cut record sleeve in the foreground (albeit in black in white). It also features the cut record sleeve in the foreground (albeit in black in white). Sheet music inspiration. The advertisement for "God Only Knows" is based off of a 1912 sheet music cover for "Be My Little Baby Bumble Bee".[4] The sheet music found in the studio is "Allegro for Flute Clock" by Ludwig van Beethoven. It can conventionally be played by a flute trio, but it was intended for a Flötenuhr or Spielühr, otherwise known as a mechanical pipe organ. Elizabeth studies the same sheet music in her Tower. Elizabeth studies the same sheet music in her Tower. References[] ↑ Jeremiah Fink's Voxophone: Changing My Tune ↑ IGN: The Music of BioShock Infinite ↑ 78rpm Record Sleeves ↑ Be My Little Baby Bumble Bee Sheet music ↑ Jeremiah Fink's Voxophone: Changing My Tune ↑ IGN: The Music of BioShock Infinite ↑ 78rpm Record Sleeves ↑ Be My Little Baby Bumble Bee Sheet music Deutsch Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. Horror Sci-fi BioShock Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. Horror Sci-fi BioShock Horror Sci-fi BioShock Horror Sci-fi BioShock