Source: https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php/Rickard_Stark
Title: Rickard Stark - A Wiki of Ice and Fire
Words: 7097

================================================================================

Rickard Stark From A Wiki of Ice and Fire Jump to: navigation, search LordRickard Stark Rickard Stark, by Mike Hallstein Titles Lord of WinterfellWarden of the NorthAllegiance House StarkCulture NorthmenBorn 230–250 AC[1]Winterfell, the North[2]Died 282 ACGreat Hall, King's LandingBuried Crypt of WinterfellFather Edwyle StarkMother Marna LockeSpouse Lady Lyarra StarkIssue Brandon StarkEddard StarkLyanna StarkBenjen StarkBooks The World of Ice & Fire (mentioned)A Game of Thrones (mentioned)A Clash of Kings (mentioned)A Storm of Swords (mentioned)A Dance with Dragons (mentioned) Played by Wayne FoskettTV series Game of Thrones: Season 6 For others with the same name, see Rickard Stark (disambiguation). Rickard Stark was Lord of Winterfell, Warden of the North, and head of House Stark during the reign of King Aerys II Targaryen. He was the only child of Lord Edwyle Stark and Lady Marna Locke.[3] Rickard was the father of the current Lord of Winterfell, Eddard Stark. In the television adaptation Game of Thrones, Rickard is portrayed by Wayne Foskett in a Season 6 flashback. Contents 1 Appearance and Character 2 History 3 Recent Events 3.1 A Game of Thrones 3.2 A Clash of Kings 3.3 A Storm of Swords 3.4 A Dance with Dragons 4 Quotes 5 Family 6 References Appearance and Character See also: Images of Rickard Stark In the crypts of Winterfell, there is a statue of Rickard at his tomb, which is flanked by those of his eldest son, Brandon, and his daughter, Lyanna. Rickard's engraving is said to match his appearance in life with a long, stern face and quiet dignity,[4] and Theon Greyjoy thinks the statue's eyes look sad.[5] There is a stone direwolf at the statue's feet.[6] Lord Stark owned steel armor with golden spurs.[7] According to Barbrey Dustin, Rickard was ambitious.[5] History Rickard was born at Winterfell[2] the only child of Lord Edwyle Stark and Lady Marna Locke.[3] Rickard married his cousin once removed, Lyarra Stark, and had four children: Brandon (b. 262 AC), Eddard (b. 263 AC), Lyanna (b. 266 AC or 267 AC), and Benjen. Lord Rickard visited King's Landing in 264 AC, leading King Aerys II Targaryen to consider building another Wall and claiming more land in the far north.[8] Lady Olenna Redwyne was loosely acquainted with Rickard.[9] After killing a miller and raping his wife, Lord Roose Bolton had the tongue cut out from the miller's brother to prevent Lord Rickard from learning what happened.[10] Rickard negotiated the betrothal of his heir Brandon to Catelyn Tully of Riverrun.[4] According to a semi-canon source, Rickard accepted a betrothal between his daughter Lyanna and Lord Robert Baratheon of Storm's End when his younger son Eddard carried Robert's proposal to Winterfell.[11] According to Barbrey Dustin, both proposed marriages were the idea of Rickard's maester at the time, Walys.[12] In 282 AC, Brandon was traveling to meet Rickard's party coming down from the north in preparation of Brandon's wedding to Catelyn, when news of Lyanna's abduction at the hand of Prince Rhaegar Targaryen reached him.[13] Brandon went to King's Landing with a small company of young nobles to challenge Rhaegar, but was imprisoned with his companions by King Aerys II Targaryen on the charge of conspiring to kill the crown prince in the Red Keep. Aerys next summoned Rickard and the fathers of Brandon's companions to come and answer for the crimes of their sons.[7] Rickard demanded a trial by combat, which was granted by the king. According to Ser Jaime Lannister, Rickard expected to fight one of the Kingsguard. Dressed in his steel armor, he was brought to the throne room, where King Aerys II declared that fire was the champion of House Targaryen. Rickard was suspended from the rafters, and a fire was lit beneath him by the pyromancers. Rickard was slowly cooked to death in his armor, while his son Brandon, with a Tyroshi noose around his neck and a sword just out of his reach, was made to watch his father roast. Trying to reach the sword to save his dying father, Brandon strangled himself.[7] Ser Gerold Hightower and Ser Jaime Lannister of the Kingsguard were among those present for Rickard's and Brandon's execution. The other nobles and their sons were also executed by Aerys, with the exception of Ethan Glover.[7] Rickard was succeeded by his second son, Eddard. Together with Lords Jon Arryn, Hoster Tully, and Robert Baratheon, Eddard was a leader of Robert's Rebellion, the revolt against the Targaryens that overthrew their dynasty. Some have blamed Rickard's alliances for the near fall of House Stark.[14] Lord Eddard did not reveal the true manner of Rickard's death to his family; both his wife Catelyn and his son Bran believed Rickard was beheaded.[6][7] Recent Events A Game of Thrones Lord Eddard Stark sees the tomb of his father when King Robert I Baratheon visits the crypt of Winterfell.[4] A Clash of Kings Rickard appears in Theon Greyjoy's nightmare of King Robert's feast of the dead at Winterfell.[15] Meera Reed takes the heavy sword from Rickard's tomb when Bran Stark and his companions leave the crypt.[16] A Storm of Swords Ser Jaime Lannister recalls that he stood by and did nothing when King Aerys II Targaryen executed Rickard and Brandon Stark.[17] A Dance with Dragons Barbrey Dustin, Lady of Barrowton, tells Theon Greyjoy about Rickard and Maester Walys.[5] Quotes Lord Rickard demanded trial by combat, and the king granted the request. Stark armored himself as for battle, thinking to duel one of the Kingsguard. Me, perhaps. Instead they took him to the throne room and suspended him from the rafters while two of Aerys's pyromancers kindled a blaze beneath him. The king told him that fire was the champion of House Targaryen. So all Lord Rickard needed to do to prove himself innocent of treason was . well, not burn.[7]—Jaime Lannister to Catelyn Stark They tend to us when we are sick and injured, or distraught over the illness of a parent or a child. Whenever we are weakest and most vulnerable, there they are. Sometimes they heal us, and we are duly grateful. When they fail, they console us in our grief, and we are grateful for that as well. Out of gratitude we give them a place beneath our roof and make them privy to all our shames and secrets, a part of every council. And before too long, the ruler has become the ruled. That was how it was with Lord Rickard Stark. Maester Walys was his grey rat's name.[12]—Barbrey Dustin to Theon Greyjoy The day I learned that Brandon was to marry Catelyn Tully, though . there was nothing sweet about that pain. He never wanted her, I promise you that. He told me so, on our last night together . but Rickard Stark had great ambitions too. Southron ambitions that would not be served by having his heir marry the daughter of one of his own vassals.[5]—Barbrey Dustin to Theon Greyjoy Family Rickard was an only child.[3][18] However, according to Old Nan, Rickard might have had a baby brother named Brandon, who died of a summer fever at the age of three.[19] This Brandon is actually Rickard's half-uncle.[3] Beron LorraRoyce Donnor LyanneGlover Willam MelanthaBlackwood Artos LysaraKarstark Berena Alysanne Errold Rodrik AryaFlint Brandon Edwyle MarnaLocke Jocelyn BenedictRoyce Brandon Benjen HarroldRogers Branda Issue Issue Issue Rickard Lyarra Brandon CatelynTully Eddard Unknownwoman Lyanna Benjen JeyneWesterling Robb Sansa TyrionLannister Arya Brandon Rickon JonSnow Preceded byEdwyle Stark Lord of WinterfellWarden of the North ?–282 AC Succeeded byEddard Stark References ↑ See the Rickard Stark calculation. ↑ 2.0 2.1 George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire, Rickard Stark. ↑ 3.0 3.1 3.2 3.3 The World of Ice & Fire, Appendix: Stark Lineage. ↑ 4.0 4.1 4.2 A Game of Thrones, Chapter 4, Eddard I. ↑ 5.0 5.1 5.2 5.3 A Dance with Dragons, Chapter 41, The Turncloak. ↑ 6.0 6.1 A Game of Thrones, Chapter 66, Bran VII. ↑ 7.0 7.1 7.2 7.3 7.4 7.5 A Clash of Kings, Chapter 55, Catelyn VII. ↑ The World of Ice & Fire, The Targaryen Kings: Aerys II. ↑ A Storm of Swords, Chapter 6, Sansa I. ↑ A Dance with Dragons, Chapter 32, Reek III. ↑ George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire, Eddard Stark. ↑ 12.0 12.1 A Dance with Dragons, Chapter 37, The Prince of Winterfell. ↑ George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire, Catelyn Tully. ↑ The World of Ice & Fire, The North: The Lords of Winterfell. ↑ A Clash of Kings, Chapter 50, Theon IV. ↑ A Clash of Kings, Chapter 69, Bran VII. ↑ A Storm of Swords, Chapter 31, Jaime IV. ↑ A Storm of Swords, Chapter 45, Catelyn V. ↑ A Game of Thrones, Chapter 24, Bran IV. vde Lords of WinterfellOfficial succession Starks Torrhen (1–?) Brandon Roderick Brandon (?–49) Walton (49–50) Alaric (50–72) Edric (72–?) Ellard Benjen Rickon (?–121) Cregan (121–?) Jonnel Barthogan Brandon Rodwell Beron (?–212)1 Donnor Willam (?–226) Edwyle (226–?) Rickard (?–282) Eddard (282–299) Robb (299) Bolton Ramsay (300—)2 Claimant to Winterfell Bran Stark (299—)3 Sansa Stark (299—)4 Regents for Lords of Winterfell Bennard Stark (121–126) 1Date not confirmed 2By marriage to "Arya Stark" 3De jure 4De jure per those who believe Bran and Rickon to be dead Retrieved from "https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Rickard_Stark&oldid=321590" Categories: House Stark3rd century AC births282 AC deathsCharacters from the NorthCharacters killed by Aerys II TargaryenCharacters killed by RossartCharacters with long faceDeaths by fireExecutions for treasonLords of WinterfellNoblesStatuesWardens of the NorthHidden categories: Character pages with new syntax nameCharacter pages with 1 coat of armsPages using deprecated image syntaxCharacter pages in alphabetical order From A Wiki of Ice and Fire Jump to: navigation, search LordRickard Stark Rickard Stark, by Mike Hallstein Titles Lord of WinterfellWarden of the NorthAllegiance House StarkCulture NorthmenBorn 230–250 AC[1]Winterfell, the North[2]Died 282 ACGreat Hall, King's LandingBuried Crypt of WinterfellFather Edwyle StarkMother Marna LockeSpouse Lady Lyarra StarkIssue Brandon StarkEddard StarkLyanna StarkBenjen StarkBooks The World of Ice & Fire (mentioned)A Game of Thrones (mentioned)A Clash of Kings (mentioned)A Storm of Swords (mentioned)A Dance with Dragons (mentioned) Played by Wayne FoskettTV series Game of Thrones: Season 6 For others with the same name, see Rickard Stark (disambiguation). Rickard Stark was Lord of Winterfell, Warden of the North, and head of House Stark during the reign of King Aerys II Targaryen. He was the only child of Lord Edwyle Stark and Lady Marna Locke.[3] Rickard was the father of the current Lord of Winterfell, Eddard Stark. In the television adaptation Game of Thrones, Rickard is portrayed by Wayne Foskett in a Season 6 flashback. Contents 1 Appearance and Character 2 History 3 Recent Events 3.1 A Game of Thrones 3.2 A Clash of Kings 3.3 A Storm of Swords 3.4 A Dance with Dragons 4 Quotes 5 Family 6 References Appearance and Character See also: Images of Rickard Stark In the crypts of Winterfell, there is a statue of Rickard at his tomb, which is flanked by those of his eldest son, Brandon, and his daughter, Lyanna. Rickard's engraving is said to match his appearance in life with a long, stern face and quiet dignity,[4] and Theon Greyjoy thinks the statue's eyes look sad.[5] There is a stone direwolf at the statue's feet.[6] Lord Stark owned steel armor with golden spurs.[7] According to Barbrey Dustin, Rickard was ambitious.[5] History Rickard was born at Winterfell[2] the only child of Lord Edwyle Stark and Lady Marna Locke.[3] Rickard married his cousin once removed, Lyarra Stark, and had four children: Brandon (b. 262 AC), Eddard (b. 263 AC), Lyanna (b. 266 AC or 267 AC), and Benjen. Lord Rickard visited King's Landing in 264 AC, leading King Aerys II Targaryen to consider building another Wall and claiming more land in the far north.[8] Lady Olenna Redwyne was loosely acquainted with Rickard.[9] After killing a miller and raping his wife, Lord Roose Bolton had the tongue cut out from the miller's brother to prevent Lord Rickard from learning what happened.[10] Rickard negotiated the betrothal of his heir Brandon to Catelyn Tully of Riverrun.[4] According to a semi-canon source, Rickard accepted a betrothal between his daughter Lyanna and Lord Robert Baratheon of Storm's End when his younger son Eddard carried Robert's proposal to Winterfell.[11] According to Barbrey Dustin, both proposed marriages were the idea of Rickard's maester at the time, Walys.[12] In 282 AC, Brandon was traveling to meet Rickard's party coming down from the north in preparation of Brandon's wedding to Catelyn, when news of Lyanna's abduction at the hand of Prince Rhaegar Targaryen reached him.[13] Brandon went to King's Landing with a small company of young nobles to challenge Rhaegar, but was imprisoned with his companions by King Aerys II Targaryen on the charge of conspiring to kill the crown prince in the Red Keep. Aerys next summoned Rickard and the fathers of Brandon's companions to come and answer for the crimes of their sons.[7] Rickard demanded a trial by combat, which was granted by the king. According to Ser Jaime Lannister, Rickard expected to fight one of the Kingsguard. Dressed in his steel armor, he was brought to the throne room, where King Aerys II declared that fire was the champion of House Targaryen. Rickard was suspended from the rafters, and a fire was lit beneath him by the pyromancers. Rickard was slowly cooked to death in his armor, while his son Brandon, with a Tyroshi noose around his neck and a sword just out of his reach, was made to watch his father roast. Trying to reach the sword to save his dying father, Brandon strangled himself.[7] Ser Gerold Hightower and Ser Jaime Lannister of the Kingsguard were among those present for Rickard's and Brandon's execution. The other nobles and their sons were also executed by Aerys, with the exception of Ethan Glover.[7] Rickard was succeeded by his second son, Eddard. Together with Lords Jon Arryn, Hoster Tully, and Robert Baratheon, Eddard was a leader of Robert's Rebellion, the revolt against the Targaryens that overthrew their dynasty. Some have blamed Rickard's alliances for the near fall of House Stark.[14] Lord Eddard did not reveal the true manner of Rickard's death to his family; both his wife Catelyn and his son Bran believed Rickard was beheaded.[6][7] Recent Events A Game of Thrones Lord Eddard Stark sees the tomb of his father when King Robert I Baratheon visits the crypt of Winterfell.[4] A Clash of Kings Rickard appears in Theon Greyjoy's nightmare of King Robert's feast of the dead at Winterfell.[15] Meera Reed takes the heavy sword from Rickard's tomb when Bran Stark and his companions leave the crypt.[16] A Storm of Swords Ser Jaime Lannister recalls that he stood by and did nothing when King Aerys II Targaryen executed Rickard and Brandon Stark.[17] A Dance with Dragons Barbrey Dustin, Lady of Barrowton, tells Theon Greyjoy about Rickard and Maester Walys.[5] Quotes Lord Rickard demanded trial by combat, and the king granted the request. Stark armored himself as for battle, thinking to duel one of the Kingsguard. Me, perhaps. Instead they took him to the throne room and suspended him from the rafters while two of Aerys's pyromancers kindled a blaze beneath him. The king told him that fire was the champion of House Targaryen. So all Lord Rickard needed to do to prove himself innocent of treason was . well, not burn.[7]—Jaime Lannister to Catelyn Stark They tend to us when we are sick and injured, or distraught over the illness of a parent or a child. Whenever we are weakest and most vulnerable, there they are. Sometimes they heal us, and we are duly grateful. When they fail, they console us in our grief, and we are grateful for that as well. Out of gratitude we give them a place beneath our roof and make them privy to all our shames and secrets, a part of every council. And before too long, the ruler has become the ruled. That was how it was with Lord Rickard Stark. Maester Walys was his grey rat's name.[12]—Barbrey Dustin to Theon Greyjoy The day I learned that Brandon was to marry Catelyn Tully, though . there was nothing sweet about that pain. He never wanted her, I promise you that. He told me so, on our last night together . but Rickard Stark had great ambitions too. Southron ambitions that would not be served by having his heir marry the daughter of one of his own vassals.[5]—Barbrey Dustin to Theon Greyjoy Family Rickard was an only child.[3][18] However, according to Old Nan, Rickard might have had a baby brother named Brandon, who died of a summer fever at the age of three.[19] This Brandon is actually Rickard's half-uncle.[3] Beron LorraRoyce Donnor LyanneGlover Willam MelanthaBlackwood Artos LysaraKarstark Berena Alysanne Errold Rodrik AryaFlint Brandon Edwyle MarnaLocke Jocelyn BenedictRoyce Brandon Benjen HarroldRogers Branda Issue Issue Issue Rickard Lyarra Brandon CatelynTully Eddard Unknownwoman Lyanna Benjen JeyneWesterling Robb Sansa TyrionLannister Arya Brandon Rickon JonSnow Preceded byEdwyle Stark Lord of WinterfellWarden of the North ?–282 AC Succeeded byEddard Stark References ↑ See the Rickard Stark calculation. ↑ 2.0 2.1 George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire, Rickard Stark. ↑ 3.0 3.1 3.2 3.3 The World of Ice & Fire, Appendix: Stark Lineage. ↑ 4.0 4.1 4.2 A Game of Thrones, Chapter 4, Eddard I. ↑ 5.0 5.1 5.2 5.3 A Dance with Dragons, Chapter 41, The Turncloak. ↑ 6.0 6.1 A Game of Thrones, Chapter 66, Bran VII. ↑ 7.0 7.1 7.2 7.3 7.4 7.5 A Clash of Kings, Chapter 55, Catelyn VII. ↑ The World of Ice & Fire, The Targaryen Kings: Aerys II. ↑ A Storm of Swords, Chapter 6, Sansa I. ↑ A Dance with Dragons, Chapter 32, Reek III. ↑ George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire, Eddard Stark. ↑ 12.0 12.1 A Dance with Dragons, Chapter 37, The Prince of Winterfell. ↑ George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire, Catelyn Tully. ↑ The World of Ice & Fire, The North: The Lords of Winterfell. ↑ A Clash of Kings, Chapter 50, Theon IV. ↑ A Clash of Kings, Chapter 69, Bran VII. ↑ A Storm of Swords, Chapter 31, Jaime IV. ↑ A Storm of Swords, Chapter 45, Catelyn V. ↑ A Game of Thrones, Chapter 24, Bran IV. vde Lords of WinterfellOfficial succession Starks Torrhen (1–?) Brandon Roderick Brandon (?–49) Walton (49–50) Alaric (50–72) Edric (72–?) Ellard Benjen Rickon (?–121) Cregan (121–?) Jonnel Barthogan Brandon Rodwell Beron (?–212)1 Donnor Willam (?–226) Edwyle (226–?) Rickard (?–282) Eddard (282–299) Robb (299) Bolton Ramsay (300—)2 Claimant to Winterfell Bran Stark (299—)3 Sansa Stark (299—)4 Regents for Lords of Winterfell Bennard Stark (121–126) 1Date not confirmed 2By marriage to "Arya Stark" 3De jure 4De jure per those who believe Bran and Rickon to be dead LordRickard Stark Rickard Stark, by Mike Hallstein Titles Lord of WinterfellWarden of the NorthAllegiance House StarkCulture NorthmenBorn 230–250 AC[1]Winterfell, the North[2]Died 282 ACGreat Hall, King's LandingBuried Crypt of WinterfellFather Edwyle StarkMother Marna LockeSpouse Lady Lyarra StarkIssue Brandon StarkEddard StarkLyanna StarkBenjen StarkBooks The World of Ice & Fire (mentioned)A Game of Thrones (mentioned)A Clash of Kings (mentioned)A Storm of Swords (mentioned)A Dance with Dragons (mentioned) Played by Wayne FoskettTV series Game of Thrones: Season 6 For others with the same name, see Rickard Stark (disambiguation). Rickard Stark was Lord of Winterfell, Warden of the North, and head of House Stark during the reign of King Aerys II Targaryen. He was the only child of Lord Edwyle Stark and Lady Marna Locke.[3] Rickard was the father of the current Lord of Winterfell, Eddard Stark. In the television adaptation Game of Thrones, Rickard is portrayed by Wayne Foskett in a Season 6 flashback. Contents 1 Appearance and Character 2 History 3 Recent Events 3.1 A Game of Thrones 3.2 A Clash of Kings 3.3 A Storm of Swords 3.4 A Dance with Dragons 4 Quotes 5 Family 6 References Appearance and Character See also: Images of Rickard Stark In the crypts of Winterfell, there is a statue of Rickard at his tomb, which is flanked by those of his eldest son, Brandon, and his daughter, Lyanna. Rickard's engraving is said to match his appearance in life with a long, stern face and quiet dignity,[4] and Theon Greyjoy thinks the statue's eyes look sad.[5] There is a stone direwolf at the statue's feet.[6] Lord Stark owned steel armor with golden spurs.[7] According to Barbrey Dustin, Rickard was ambitious.[5] History Rickard was born at Winterfell[2] the only child of Lord Edwyle Stark and Lady Marna Locke.[3] Rickard married his cousin once removed, Lyarra Stark, and had four children: Brandon (b. 262 AC), Eddard (b. 263 AC), Lyanna (b. 266 AC or 267 AC), and Benjen. Lord Rickard visited King's Landing in 264 AC, leading King Aerys II Targaryen to consider building another Wall and claiming more land in the far north.[8] Lady Olenna Redwyne was loosely acquainted with Rickard.[9] After killing a miller and raping his wife, Lord Roose Bolton had the tongue cut out from the miller's brother to prevent Lord Rickard from learning what happened.[10] Rickard negotiated the betrothal of his heir Brandon to Catelyn Tully of Riverrun.[4] According to a semi-canon source, Rickard accepted a betrothal between his daughter Lyanna and Lord Robert Baratheon of Storm's End when his younger son Eddard carried Robert's proposal to Winterfell.[11] According to Barbrey Dustin, both proposed marriages were the idea of Rickard's maester at the time, Walys.[12] In 282 AC, Brandon was traveling to meet Rickard's party coming down from the north in preparation of Brandon's wedding to Catelyn, when news of Lyanna's abduction at the hand of Prince Rhaegar Targaryen reached him.[13] Brandon went to King's Landing with a small company of young nobles to challenge Rhaegar, but was imprisoned with his companions by King Aerys II Targaryen on the charge of conspiring to kill the crown prince in the Red Keep. Aerys next summoned Rickard and the fathers of Brandon's companions to come and answer for the crimes of their sons.[7] Rickard demanded a trial by combat, which was granted by the king. According to Ser Jaime Lannister, Rickard expected to fight one of the Kingsguard. Dressed in his steel armor, he was brought to the throne room, where King Aerys II declared that fire was the champion of House Targaryen. Rickard was suspended from the rafters, and a fire was lit beneath him by the pyromancers. Rickard was slowly cooked to death in his armor, while his son Brandon, with a Tyroshi noose around his neck and a sword just out of his reach, was made to watch his father roast. Trying to reach the sword to save his dying father, Brandon strangled himself.[7] Ser Gerold Hightower and Ser Jaime Lannister of the Kingsguard were among those present for Rickard's and Brandon's execution. The other nobles and their sons were also executed by Aerys, with the exception of Ethan Glover.[7] Rickard was succeeded by his second son, Eddard. Together with Lords Jon Arryn, Hoster Tully, and Robert Baratheon, Eddard was a leader of Robert's Rebellion, the revolt against the Targaryens that overthrew their dynasty. Some have blamed Rickard's alliances for the near fall of House Stark.[14] Lord Eddard did not reveal the true manner of Rickard's death to his family; both his wife Catelyn and his son Bran believed Rickard was beheaded.[6][7] Recent Events A Game of Thrones Lord Eddard Stark sees the tomb of his father when King Robert I Baratheon visits the crypt of Winterfell.[4] A Clash of Kings Rickard appears in Theon Greyjoy's nightmare of King Robert's feast of the dead at Winterfell.[15] Meera Reed takes the heavy sword from Rickard's tomb when Bran Stark and his companions leave the crypt.[16] A Storm of Swords Ser Jaime Lannister recalls that he stood by and did nothing when King Aerys II Targaryen executed Rickard and Brandon Stark.[17] A Dance with Dragons Barbrey Dustin, Lady of Barrowton, tells Theon Greyjoy about Rickard and Maester Walys.[5] Quotes Lord Rickard demanded trial by combat, and the king granted the request. Stark armored himself as for battle, thinking to duel one of the Kingsguard. Me, perhaps. Instead they took him to the throne room and suspended him from the rafters while two of Aerys's pyromancers kindled a blaze beneath him. The king told him that fire was the champion of House Targaryen. So all Lord Rickard needed to do to prove himself innocent of treason was . well, not burn.[7]—Jaime Lannister to Catelyn Stark They tend to us when we are sick and injured, or distraught over the illness of a parent or a child. Whenever we are weakest and most vulnerable, there they are. Sometimes they heal us, and we are duly grateful. When they fail, they console us in our grief, and we are grateful for that as well. Out of gratitude we give them a place beneath our roof and make them privy to all our shames and secrets, a part of every council. And before too long, the ruler has become the ruled. That was how it was with Lord Rickard Stark. Maester Walys was his grey rat's name.[12]—Barbrey Dustin to Theon Greyjoy The day I learned that Brandon was to marry Catelyn Tully, though . there was nothing sweet about that pain. He never wanted her, I promise you that. He told me so, on our last night together . but Rickard Stark had great ambitions too. Southron ambitions that would not be served by having his heir marry the daughter of one of his own vassals.[5]—Barbrey Dustin to Theon Greyjoy Family Rickard was an only child.[3][18] However, according to Old Nan, Rickard might have had a baby brother named Brandon, who died of a summer fever at the age of three.[19] This Brandon is actually Rickard's half-uncle.[3] Beron LorraRoyce Donnor LyanneGlover Willam MelanthaBlackwood Artos LysaraKarstark Berena Alysanne Errold Rodrik AryaFlint Brandon Edwyle MarnaLocke Jocelyn BenedictRoyce Brandon Benjen HarroldRogers Branda Issue Issue Issue Rickard Lyarra Brandon CatelynTully Eddard Unknownwoman Lyanna Benjen JeyneWesterling Robb Sansa TyrionLannister Arya Brandon Rickon JonSnow Preceded byEdwyle Stark Lord of WinterfellWarden of the North ?–282 AC Succeeded byEddard Stark References ↑ See the Rickard Stark calculation. ↑ 2.0 2.1 George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire, Rickard Stark. ↑ 3.0 3.1 3.2 3.3 The World of Ice & Fire, Appendix: Stark Lineage. ↑ 4.0 4.1 4.2 A Game of Thrones, Chapter 4, Eddard I. ↑ 5.0 5.1 5.2 5.3 A Dance with Dragons, Chapter 41, The Turncloak. ↑ 6.0 6.1 A Game of Thrones, Chapter 66, Bran VII. ↑ 7.0 7.1 7.2 7.3 7.4 7.5 A Clash of Kings, Chapter 55, Catelyn VII. ↑ The World of Ice & Fire, The Targaryen Kings: Aerys II. ↑ A Storm of Swords, Chapter 6, Sansa I. ↑ A Dance with Dragons, Chapter 32, Reek III. ↑ George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire, Eddard Stark. ↑ 12.0 12.1 A Dance with Dragons, Chapter 37, The Prince of Winterfell. ↑ George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire, Catelyn Tully. ↑ The World of Ice & Fire, The North: The Lords of Winterfell. ↑ A Clash of Kings, Chapter 50, Theon IV. ↑ A Clash of Kings, Chapter 69, Bran VII. ↑ A Storm of Swords, Chapter 31, Jaime IV. ↑ A Storm of Swords, Chapter 45, Catelyn V. ↑ A Game of Thrones, Chapter 24, Bran IV. vde Lords of WinterfellOfficial succession Starks Torrhen (1–?) Brandon Roderick Brandon (?–49) Walton (49–50) Alaric (50–72) Edric (72–?) Ellard Benjen Rickon (?–121) Cregan (121–?) Jonnel Barthogan Brandon Rodwell Beron (?–212)1 Donnor Willam (?–226) Edwyle (226–?) Rickard (?–282) Eddard (282–299) Robb (299) Bolton Ramsay (300—)2 Claimant to Winterfell Bran Stark (299—)3 Sansa Stark (299—)4 Regents for Lords of Winterfell Bennard Stark (121–126) 1Date not confirmed 2By marriage to "Arya Stark" 3De jure 4De jure per those who believe Bran and Rickon to be dead Rickard Stark, by Mike Hallstein Lord of WinterfellWarden of the North Lord of Winterfell Warden of the North Brandon StarkEddard StarkLyanna StarkBenjen Stark Brandon Stark Eddard Stark Lyanna Stark Benjen Stark The World of Ice & Fire (mentioned)A Game of Thrones (mentioned)A Clash of Kings (mentioned)A Storm of Swords (mentioned)A Dance with Dragons (mentioned) The World of Ice & Fire (mentioned) A Game of Thrones (mentioned) A Clash of Kings (mentioned) A Storm of Swords (mentioned) A Dance with Dragons (mentioned) For others with the same name, see Rickard Stark (disambiguation). Rickard Stark was Lord of Winterfell, Warden of the North, and head of House Stark during the reign of King Aerys II Targaryen. He was the only child of Lord Edwyle Stark and Lady Marna Locke.[3] Rickard was the father of the current Lord of Winterfell, Eddard Stark. In the television adaptation Game of Thrones, Rickard is portrayed by Wayne Foskett in a Season 6 flashback. Contents 1 Appearance and Character 2 History 3 Recent Events 3.1 A Game of Thrones 3.2 A Clash of Kings 3.3 A Storm of Swords 3.4 A Dance with Dragons 4 Quotes 5 Family 6 References 1 Appearance and Character 3 Recent Events 3.1 A Game of Thrones 3.2 A Clash of Kings 3.3 A Storm of Swords 3.4 A Dance with Dragons 3.1 A Game of Thrones 3.2 A Clash of Kings 3.3 A Storm of Swords 3.4 A Dance with Dragons 6 References Appearance and Character In the crypts of Winterfell, there is a statue of Rickard at his tomb, which is flanked by those of his eldest son, Brandon, and his daughter, Lyanna. Rickard's engraving is said to match his appearance in life with a long, stern face and quiet dignity,[4] and Theon Greyjoy thinks the statue's eyes look sad.[5] There is a stone direwolf at the statue's feet.[6] Lord Stark owned steel armor with golden spurs.[7] According to Barbrey Dustin, Rickard was ambitious.[5] Rickard was born at Winterfell[2] the only child of Lord Edwyle Stark and Lady Marna Locke.[3] Rickard married his cousin once removed, Lyarra Stark, and had four children: Brandon (b. 262 AC), Eddard (b. 263 AC), Lyanna (b. 266 AC or 267 AC), and Benjen. Lord Rickard visited King's Landing in 264 AC, leading King Aerys II Targaryen to consider building another Wall and claiming more land in the far north.[8] Lady Olenna Redwyne was loosely acquainted with Rickard.[9] After killing a miller and raping his wife, Lord Roose Bolton had the tongue cut out from the miller's brother to prevent Lord Rickard from learning what happened.[10] Rickard negotiated the betrothal of his heir Brandon to Catelyn Tully of Riverrun.[4] According to a semi-canon source, Rickard accepted a betrothal between his daughter Lyanna and Lord Robert Baratheon of Storm's End when his younger son Eddard carried Robert's proposal to Winterfell.[11] According to Barbrey Dustin, both proposed marriages were the idea of Rickard's maester at the time, Walys.[12] In 282 AC, Brandon was traveling to meet Rickard's party coming down from the north in preparation of Brandon's wedding to Catelyn, when news of Lyanna's abduction at the hand of Prince Rhaegar Targaryen reached him.[13] Brandon went to King's Landing with a small company of young nobles to challenge Rhaegar, but was imprisoned with his companions by King Aerys II Targaryen on the charge of conspiring to kill the crown prince in the Red Keep. Aerys next summoned Rickard and the fathers of Brandon's companions to come and answer for the crimes of their sons.[7] Rickard demanded a trial by combat, which was granted by the king. According to Ser Jaime Lannister, Rickard expected to fight one of the Kingsguard. Dressed in his steel armor, he was brought to the throne room, where King Aerys II declared that fire was the champion of House Targaryen. Rickard was suspended from the rafters, and a fire was lit beneath him by the pyromancers. Rickard was slowly cooked to death in his armor, while his son Brandon, with a Tyroshi noose around his neck and a sword just out of his reach, was made to watch his father roast. Trying to reach the sword to save his dying father, Brandon strangled himself.[7] Ser Gerold Hightower and Ser Jaime Lannister of the Kingsguard were among those present for Rickard's and Brandon's execution. The other nobles and their sons were also executed by Aerys, with the exception of Ethan Glover.[7] Rickard was succeeded by his second son, Eddard. Together with Lords Jon Arryn, Hoster Tully, and Robert Baratheon, Eddard was a leader of Robert's Rebellion, the revolt against the Targaryens that overthrew their dynasty. Some have blamed Rickard's alliances for the near fall of House Stark.[14] Lord Eddard did not reveal the true manner of Rickard's death to his family; both his wife Catelyn and his son Bran believed Rickard was beheaded.[6][7] Recent Events A Game of Thrones Lord Eddard Stark sees the tomb of his father when King Robert I Baratheon visits the crypt of Winterfell.[4] A Clash of Kings Rickard appears in Theon Greyjoy's nightmare of King Robert's feast of the dead at Winterfell.[15] Meera Reed takes the heavy sword from Rickard's tomb when Bran Stark and his companions leave the crypt.[16] A Storm of Swords Ser Jaime Lannister recalls that he stood by and did nothing when King Aerys II Targaryen executed Rickard and Brandon Stark.[17] A Dance with Dragons Barbrey Dustin, Lady of Barrowton, tells Theon Greyjoy about Rickard and Maester Walys.[5] Lord Rickard demanded trial by combat, and the king granted the request. Stark armored himself as for battle, thinking to duel one of the Kingsguard. Me, perhaps. Instead they took him to the throne room and suspended him from the rafters while two of Aerys's pyromancers kindled a blaze beneath him. The king told him that fire was the champion of House Targaryen. So all Lord Rickard needed to do to prove himself innocent of treason was . well, not burn.[7] Lord Rickard demanded trial by combat, and the king granted the request. Stark armored himself as for battle, thinking to duel one of the Kingsguard. Me, perhaps. Instead they took him to the throne room and suspended him from the rafters while two of Aerys's pyromancers kindled a blaze beneath him. The king told him that fire was the champion of House Targaryen. So all Lord Rickard needed to do to prove himself innocent of treason was . well, not burn.[7] —Jaime Lannister to Catelyn Stark They tend to us when we are sick and injured, or distraught over the illness of a parent or a child. Whenever we are weakest and most vulnerable, there they are. Sometimes they heal us, and we are duly grateful. When they fail, they console us in our grief, and we are grateful for that as well. Out of gratitude we give them a place beneath our roof and make them privy to all our shames and secrets, a part of every council. And before too long, the ruler has become the ruled. That was how it was with Lord Rickard Stark. Maester Walys was his grey rat's name.[12] They tend to us when we are sick and injured, or distraught over the illness of a parent or a child. Whenever we are weakest and most vulnerable, there they are. Sometimes they heal us, and we are duly grateful. When they fail, they console us in our grief, and we are grateful for that as well. Out of gratitude we give them a place beneath our roof and make them privy to all our shames and secrets, a part of every council. And before too long, the ruler has become the ruled. That was how it was with Lord Rickard Stark. Maester Walys was his grey rat's name.[12] —Barbrey Dustin to Theon Greyjoy The day I learned that Brandon was to marry Catelyn Tully, though . there was nothing sweet about that pain. He never wanted her, I promise you that. He told me so, on our last night together . but Rickard Stark had great ambitions too. Southron ambitions that would not be served by having his heir marry the daughter of one of his own vassals.[5] The day I learned that Brandon was to marry Catelyn Tully, though . there was nothing sweet about that pain. He never wanted her, I promise you that. He told me so, on our last night together . but Rickard Stark had great ambitions too. Southron ambitions that would not be served by having his heir marry the daughter of one of his own vassals.[5] —Barbrey Dustin to Theon Greyjoy Rickard was an only child.[3][18] However, according to Old Nan, Rickard might have had a baby brother named Brandon, who died of a summer fever at the age of three.[19] This Brandon is actually Rickard's half-uncle.[3] Beron LorraRoyce Donnor LyanneGlover Willam MelanthaBlackwood Artos LysaraKarstark Berena Alysanne Errold Rodrik AryaFlint Brandon Edwyle MarnaLocke Jocelyn BenedictRoyce Brandon Benjen HarroldRogers Branda Issue Issue Issue Rickard Lyarra Brandon CatelynTully Eddard Unknownwoman Lyanna Benjen JeyneWesterling Robb Sansa TyrionLannister Arya Brandon Rickon JonSnow Edwyle Stark Eddard Stark ↑ See the Rickard Stark calculation. ↑ 2.0 2.1 George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire, Rickard Stark. ↑ 3.0 3.1 3.2 3.3 The World of Ice & Fire, Appendix: Stark Lineage. ↑ 4.0 4.1 4.2 A Game of Thrones, Chapter 4, Eddard I. ↑ 5.0 5.1 5.2 5.3 A Dance with Dragons, Chapter 41, The Turncloak. ↑ 6.0 6.1 A Game of Thrones, Chapter 66, Bran VII. ↑ 7.0 7.1 7.2 7.3 7.4 7.5 A Clash of Kings, Chapter 55, Catelyn VII. ↑ The World of Ice & Fire, The Targaryen Kings: Aerys II. ↑ A Storm of Swords, Chapter 6, Sansa I. ↑ A Dance with Dragons, Chapter 32, Reek III. ↑ George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire, Eddard Stark. ↑ 12.0 12.1 A Dance with Dragons, Chapter 37, The Prince of Winterfell. ↑ George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire, Catelyn Tully. ↑ The World of Ice & Fire, The North: The Lords of Winterfell. ↑ A Clash of Kings, Chapter 50, Theon IV. ↑ A Clash of Kings, Chapter 69, Bran VII. ↑ A Storm of Swords, Chapter 31, Jaime IV. ↑ A Storm of Swords, Chapter 45, Catelyn V. ↑ A Game of Thrones, Chapter 24, Bran IV. ↑ See the Rickard Stark calculation. ↑ 2.0 2.1 George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire, Rickard Stark. ↑ 3.0 3.1 3.2 3.3 The World of Ice & Fire, Appendix: Stark Lineage. ↑ 4.0 4.1 4.2 A Game of Thrones, Chapter 4, Eddard I. ↑ 5.0 5.1 5.2 5.3 A Dance with Dragons, Chapter 41, The Turncloak. ↑ 6.0 6.1 A Game of Thrones, Chapter 66, Bran VII. ↑ 7.0 7.1 7.2 7.3 7.4 7.5 A Clash of Kings, Chapter 55, Catelyn VII. ↑ The World of Ice & Fire, The Targaryen Kings: Aerys II. ↑ A Storm of Swords, Chapter 6, Sansa I. ↑ A Dance with Dragons, Chapter 32, Reek III. ↑ George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire, Eddard Stark. ↑ 12.0 12.1 A Dance with Dragons, Chapter 37, The Prince of Winterfell. ↑ George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire, Catelyn Tully. ↑ The World of Ice & Fire, The North: The Lords of Winterfell. ↑ A Clash of Kings, Chapter 50, Theon IV. ↑ A Clash of Kings, Chapter 69, Bran VII. ↑ A Storm of Swords, Chapter 31, Jaime IV. ↑ A Storm of Swords, Chapter 45, Catelyn V. ↑ A Game of Thrones, Chapter 24, Bran IV. ↑ See the Rickard Stark calculation. ↑ 2.0 2.1 George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire, Rickard Stark. ↑ 3.0 3.1 3.2 3.3 The World of Ice & Fire, Appendix: Stark Lineage. ↑ 4.0 4.1 4.2 A Game of Thrones, Chapter 4, Eddard I. ↑ 5.0 5.1 5.2 5.3 A Dance with Dragons, Chapter 41, The Turncloak. ↑ 6.0 6.1 A Game of Thrones, Chapter 66, Bran VII. ↑ 7.0 7.1 7.2 7.3 7.4 7.5 A Clash of Kings, Chapter 55, Catelyn VII. ↑ The World of Ice & Fire, The Targaryen Kings: Aerys II. ↑ A Storm of Swords, Chapter 6, Sansa I. ↑ A Dance with Dragons, Chapter 32, Reek III. ↑ George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire, Eddard Stark. ↑ 12.0 12.1 A Dance with Dragons, Chapter 37, The Prince of Winterfell. ↑ George R. R. Martin's A World of Ice and Fire, Catelyn Tully. ↑ The World of Ice & Fire, The North: The Lords of Winterfell. ↑ A Clash of Kings, Chapter 50, Theon IV. ↑ A Clash of Kings, Chapter 69, Bran VII. ↑ A Storm of Swords, Chapter 31, Jaime IV. ↑ A Storm of Swords, Chapter 45, Catelyn V. ↑ A Game of Thrones, Chapter 24, Bran IV. Lords of Winterfell Torrhen (1–?) Brandon Roderick Brandon (?–49) Walton (49–50) Alaric (50–72) Edric (72–?) Ellard Benjen Rickon (?–121) Cregan (121–?) Jonnel Barthogan Brandon Rodwell Beron (?–212)1 Donnor Willam (?–226) Edwyle (226–?) Rickard (?–282) Eddard (282–299) Robb (299) Torrhen (1–?) Brandon (?–49) Walton (49–50) Alaric (50–72) Edric (72–?) Rickon (?–121) Cregan (121–?) Beron (?–212)1 Willam (?–226) Edwyle (226–?) Rickard (?–282) Eddard (282–299) Ramsay (300—)2 Ramsay (300—)2 Bran Stark (299—)3 Sansa Stark (299—)4 Bran Stark (299—)3 Sansa Stark (299—)4 Bennard Stark (121–126) Bennard Stark (121–126) 1Date not confirmed 2By marriage to "Arya Stark" 3De jure 4De jure per those who believe Bran and Rickon to be dead 1Date not confirmed 2By marriage to "Arya Stark" 4De jure per those who believe Bran and Rickon to be dead Retrieved from "https://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php?title=Rickard_Stark&oldid=321590" Categories: House Stark3rd century AC births282 AC deathsCharacters from the NorthCharacters killed by Aerys II TargaryenCharacters killed by RossartCharacters with long faceDeaths by fireExecutions for treasonLords of WinterfellNoblesStatuesWardens of the NorthHidden categories: Character pages with new syntax nameCharacter pages with 1 coat of armsPages using deprecated image syntaxCharacter pages in alphabetical order Categories: House Stark3rd century AC births282 AC deathsCharacters from the NorthCharacters killed by Aerys II TargaryenCharacters killed by RossartCharacters with long faceDeaths by fireExecutions for treasonLords of WinterfellNoblesStatuesWardens of the North House Stark 3rd century AC births 282 AC deaths Characters from the North Characters killed by Aerys II Targaryen Characters killed by Rossart Characters with long face Deaths by fire Executions for treason Lords of Winterfell Wardens of the North Hidden categories: Character pages with new syntax nameCharacter pages with 1 coat of armsPages using deprecated image syntaxCharacter pages in alphabetical order Character pages with new syntax name Character pages with 1 coat of arms Pages using deprecated image syntax Character pages in alphabetical order