Source: https://bookofproofs.github.io/history/20th-century/sherif.html
Title: Sherif, Soraya
Words: 1413

================================================================================

Branches History Index Branches History Index Branches History Index Branches History Index ◀ ▲ ▶History / 20th-century / Person: Sherif, Soraya Person: Sherif, Soraya Soraya Sherif is an Egyptian mathematician who was awarded a Ph.D. from the University of Birmingham, England, for her thesis on Tauberian theorems. She taught at the University College for Girls, Ain Shams University, Cairo and has published many papers on Tauberian theorems. Mathematical Profile (Excerpt): The procession of exceptional women in the U.A.R., the end of which is nowhere in sight, is proud to count among its participants Dr Soraya Sherif, whose career gives evidence that the time when women were second-class citizens, sitting at home, has long gone. Dr Soraya Sherif excels in a field in which few men rarely succeed, in a domain from which most people shy away, one which requires close-to-genius intelligence - pure mathematics. On completion of her secondary school education, Soraya Sherif enrolled at the Women's College of Ain Shams University, in the Mathematics Section. Soraya applied for, and won, the scholarship. From Nottingham, she went to Selly Oak, where, after staying for two years and three months at Birmingham University she received her Ph.D. In January 1963 Dr Soraya Sherif returned to the UAR, armed with her diplomas. Dr Soraya Sherif is known throughout the world for her theories. While overseas, Dr Soraya Sherif took part in international conferences in Britain and Europe. During her university days in England, Dr Soraya Sherif also pursued other interests. At Birmingham, the Arab students, upon the initiative and the direction of Dr Soraya Sherif, sponsored an exhibition, with photographs, to show the major projects of the UAR, such as the High Dam, the new factories, land reclamation projects, Suez Canal development for the improvement of navigation. With the assistance of the UAR Embassy in London, Dr Soraya Sherif and the Arab Society were also able to put on display pharaonic statuettes and products typical of Khan El Khalili. Asked about international conferences, Dr Soraya Sherif said that participation in conferences is the best means for mutual exchange of ideas and experiences with foreign colleagues, and for opening new horizons for our scientists in particular and the country in general. Soraya Sherif was awarded a Ph.D. from the University of Birmingham in 1963 for her thesis Tauberian theorems. We now list the fifteen papers by Soraya Sherif that we have found. Brian Kuttner and Soraya Sherif, A relation between Tauberian classes, Quart. Soraya Sherif, Tauberian constants for the Riesz transforms of different orders, Math. Soraya Sherif, A note on a theorem by J. Soraya Sherif, Tauberian classes and Tauberian theorems, Quart. Soraya Sherif, Tauberian constants for general triangular matrices and certain special types of Hausdorff means, Math. Soraya Sherif, A Tauberian relation between the Borel and the Lototsky transforms of series, Pacific J. Soraya Sherif, Total regularity of quasi-Hausdorff transformations, Proc. Soraya Sherif, Absolute Tauberian constants for Cesàro means, Trans. Soraya Sherif, Absolute Tauberian constants for Hausdorff transformations, Canad. Soraya Sherif, Absolute Tauberian constants for Cesàro means of a function, Trans. Soraya Sherif and Hanaa Hamad, On the ordinary and the absolute Tauberian constants for Hausdorff transformations, Indian J. Soraya Sherif, Absolute Tauberian constants for quasi-Hausdorff series-to-series transformations, Indian J. Soraya Sherif and Layla Awaad, On Tauberian estimates for quasi-Hausdorff transformations, Indian J. Soraya Sherif, Absolute Tauberian constants for Abel means of a function, Indian J. The 1965 paper (5) has Sherif's address as University College for Girls, Ain Shams University, Cairo, UAR. The paper (6), received in July 1966, has the address Pure Mathematics Department, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, England, showing that Sherif made a research visit to Birmingham in 1966-67. Sherif certainly returned to the College for Girls, Ain Shams University, for in 2014 she was named as the first supervisor of the thesis Solutions of Dynamic Equations by Nesreen Abd El Hamed Abd El Hameed Yaseen submitted to the Department of Mathematics, University College for Girls, Ain Shams University for a Ph. D. Born 3 July 1934, Egypt. View full biography at MacTutor Tags relevant for this person: African, Origin Egypt, Women Thank you to the contributors under CC BY-SA 4.0! Github: non-Github:@J-J-O'Connor@E-F-Robertson References Adapted from other CC BY-SA 4.0 Sources: O’Connor, John J; Robertson, Edmund F: MacTutor History of Mathematics Archive ◀ ▲ ▶History / 20th-century / Person: Sherif, Soraya Person: Sherif, Soraya Soraya Sherif is an Egyptian mathematician who was awarded a Ph.D. from the University of Birmingham, England, for her thesis on Tauberian theorems. She taught at the University College for Girls, Ain Shams University, Cairo and has published many papers on Tauberian theorems. Mathematical Profile (Excerpt): The procession of exceptional women in the U.A.R., the end of which is nowhere in sight, is proud to count among its participants Dr Soraya Sherif, whose career gives evidence that the time when women were second-class citizens, sitting at home, has long gone. Dr Soraya Sherif excels in a field in which few men rarely succeed, in a domain from which most people shy away, one which requires close-to-genius intelligence - pure mathematics. On completion of her secondary school education, Soraya Sherif enrolled at the Women's College of Ain Shams University, in the Mathematics Section. Soraya applied for, and won, the scholarship. From Nottingham, she went to Selly Oak, where, after staying for two years and three months at Birmingham University she received her Ph.D. In January 1963 Dr Soraya Sherif returned to the UAR, armed with her diplomas. Dr Soraya Sherif is known throughout the world for her theories. While overseas, Dr Soraya Sherif took part in international conferences in Britain and Europe. During her university days in England, Dr Soraya Sherif also pursued other interests. At Birmingham, the Arab students, upon the initiative and the direction of Dr Soraya Sherif, sponsored an exhibition, with photographs, to show the major projects of the UAR, such as the High Dam, the new factories, land reclamation projects, Suez Canal development for the improvement of navigation. With the assistance of the UAR Embassy in London, Dr Soraya Sherif and the Arab Society were also able to put on display pharaonic statuettes and products typical of Khan El Khalili. Asked about international conferences, Dr Soraya Sherif said that participation in conferences is the best means for mutual exchange of ideas and experiences with foreign colleagues, and for opening new horizons for our scientists in particular and the country in general. Soraya Sherif was awarded a Ph.D. from the University of Birmingham in 1963 for her thesis Tauberian theorems. We now list the fifteen papers by Soraya Sherif that we have found. Brian Kuttner and Soraya Sherif, A relation between Tauberian classes, Quart. Soraya Sherif, Tauberian constants for the Riesz transforms of different orders, Math. Soraya Sherif, A note on a theorem by J. Soraya Sherif, Tauberian classes and Tauberian theorems, Quart. Soraya Sherif, Tauberian constants for general triangular matrices and certain special types of Hausdorff means, Math. Soraya Sherif, A Tauberian relation between the Borel and the Lototsky transforms of series, Pacific J. Soraya Sherif, Total regularity of quasi-Hausdorff transformations, Proc. Soraya Sherif, Absolute Tauberian constants for Cesàro means, Trans. Soraya Sherif, Absolute Tauberian constants for Hausdorff transformations, Canad. Soraya Sherif, Absolute Tauberian constants for Cesàro means of a function, Trans. Soraya Sherif and Hanaa Hamad, On the ordinary and the absolute Tauberian constants for Hausdorff transformations, Indian J. Soraya Sherif, Absolute Tauberian constants for quasi-Hausdorff series-to-series transformations, Indian J. Soraya Sherif and Layla Awaad, On Tauberian estimates for quasi-Hausdorff transformations, Indian J. Soraya Sherif, Absolute Tauberian constants for Abel means of a function, Indian J. The 1965 paper (5) has Sherif's address as University College for Girls, Ain Shams University, Cairo, UAR. The paper (6), received in July 1966, has the address Pure Mathematics Department, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, England, showing that Sherif made a research visit to Birmingham in 1966-67. Sherif certainly returned to the College for Girls, Ain Shams University, for in 2014 she was named as the first supervisor of the thesis Solutions of Dynamic Equations by Nesreen Abd El Hamed Abd El Hameed Yaseen submitted to the Department of Mathematics, University College for Girls, Ain Shams University for a Ph. D. Born 3 July 1934, Egypt. View full biography at MacTutor Tags relevant for this person: African, Origin Egypt, Women Thank you to the contributors under CC BY-SA 4.0! Github: non-Github:@J-J-O'Connor@E-F-Robertson Adapted from other CC BY-SA 4.0 Sources: O’Connor, John J; Robertson, Edmund F: MacTutor History of Mathematics Archive