Source: https://billygraham.org/about/biographies/billy-graham/
Title: Billy Graham
Words: 18952

================================================================================

Biographies Billy Graham “My one purpose in life is to help people find a personal relationship with God, which, I believe, comes through knowing Christ.” Biographies Billy Graham “My one purpose in life is to help people find a personal relationship with God, which, I believe, comes through knowing Christ.” Biographies Billy Graham “My one purpose in life is to help people find a personal relationship with God, which, I believe, comes through knowing Christ.” Biographies Billy Graham “My one purpose in life is to help people find a personal relationship with God, which, I believe, comes through knowing Christ.” Biographies Billy Graham “My one purpose in life is to help people find a personal relationship with God, which, I believe, comes through knowing Christ.” Biographies Billy Graham “My one purpose in life is to help people find a personal relationship with God, which, I believe, comes through knowing Christ.” William (Billy) F. Graham Jr.Evangelist and Chairman of the Board Evangelist Billy Graham took Christ literally when He said in Mark 16:15, “Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature.”Mr. Graham preached the Gospel to nearly 215 million people in more than 185 countries and territories through various meetings, including Mission World and Global Mission. Hundreds of millions more have been reached through television, video, film, and webcasts.Beginning with the 1949 Los Angeles Crusade, which vaulted Mr. Graham into the public eye, he led hundreds of thousands of individuals to make personal decisions to live for Christ, the main thrust of his decadeslong ministry. Born Nov. 7, 1918, four days before the armistice ended World War I, Mr. Graham was reared on a dairy farm in Charlotte, North Carolina. Growing up during the Depression, he learned the value of hard work on the family farm, but he also found time to spend many hours in the hayloft reading books on a wide variety of subjects.In the fall of 1934, at age 15, Mr. Graham made a personal commitment to Christ through the ministry of Mordecai Ham, a traveling evangelist, who visited Charlotte for a series of revival meetings.Ordained in 1939 by Peniel Baptist Church in Palatka, Florida (a church in the Southern Baptist Convention), Mr. Graham received a solid foundation in the Scriptures at Florida Bible Institute (now Trinity College of Florida). In 1943 he graduated from Wheaton College in Illinois and married fellow student Ruth McCue Bell, daughter of a missionary surgeon, who spent the first 17 years of her life in China. Billy Graham served as the first full-time evangelist of the Youth for Christ ministry in the mid-1940s. A young Billy Graham deep in thought in 1954. A crowd stands outside the Canvas Cathedral, site of Billy Graham’s 1949 Los Angeles Crusade. After graduating from college, Mr. Graham pastored The Village Church of Western Springs (now Western Springs Baptist Church) in Western Springs, Illinois, before joining Youth for Christ, an organization founded for ministry to youth and servicemen during World War II. He preached throughout the United States and in Europe in the immediate postwar era, emerging as a rising young evangelist.The Los Angeles Crusade in 1949 launched Mr. Graham into international prominence. Scheduled for three weeks, the meetings were extended to more than eight weeks, with overflow crowds filling a tent erected downtown each night.Many of his subsequent early Crusades were similarly extended, including one in London that lasted 12 weeks, and a New York City Crusade in Madison Square Garden in 1957 that ran nightly for 16 weeks.Today, Mr. Graham’s ministry is known around the globe. He preached in remote African villages and in the heart of New York City, and those to whom he ministered have ranged from heads of state to the simple living bushmen of Australia and the wandering tribes of Africa and the Middle East. Beginning in 1977, Mr. Graham was given the opportunity to conduct preaching missions in virtually every country of the former Eastern bloc, including the former Soviet Union.In 2013, Mr. Graham had the vision for proclaiming the Gospel across the United States and Canada, prompting the implementation of My Hope with Billy Graham, a grassroots evangelism outreach combining personal relationships with the power of modern media. Based upon a pioneering outreach that had already resulted in millions of decisions for Christ around the world since 2002, churches and individual Christians across the two countries were encouraged and equipped to pray and reach out to friends, family, and neighbors using a powerful new film from BGEA. Approaching 95 years of age, Mr. Graham recorded a new video message, called “The Cross,” for the project, which was made available for use in homes and churches as a tool for sharing the Gospel. Billy Graham’s Greater London Crusade ran for nearly three months, catapulting the American preacher into an international evangelist. Mr. Graham founded the Billy Graham Evangelistic Association (BGEA) in 1950, headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota, until relocating to Charlotte, North Carolina, in 2003. Through BGEA’s ministry, Mr. Graham started:the weekly Hour of Decision radio program, which was heard around the world for more than 60 years;television programs that are still broadcast today on national Christian networks;a syndicated newspaper column, My Answer, which is carried by newspapers both nationally and internationally; andDecision magazine, the official publication of the Association, which has a circulation of more than 425,000, making it one of the most widely circulated religious periodicals in the world.Mr. Graham wrote 33 books, many of which became top sellers. His autobiography Just As I Am, published in 1997, achieved a “triple crown,” appearing simultaneously on the three top bestseller lists in one week. In it, Mr. Graham reflected on his life, and decades of ministry around the world. From humble beginnings as the son of a dairy farmer in North Carolina, he shared how his unwavering faith in Christ formed and shaped his career.Mr. Graham’s most recent works include Where I Am: Heaven, Eternity, and Our Life Beyond (2015), The Reason for My Hope: Salvation (2013), The Heaven Answer Book (2012), Nearing Home: Life, Faith, and Finishing Well (2011) and Storm Warning: Whether Global Recession, Terrorist Threats, or Devastating Natural Disasters, These Ominous Shadows Must Bring Us Back to the Gospel (2010). Nearing Home was selected as the 2012 Christian Book of the Year by the Evangelical Christian Publishers Association. Of his other books, Approaching Hoofbeats: The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse (1983) was listed for several weeks on The New York Times bestseller list; How to Be Born Again (1977) had the largest first printing in publishing history at the time with 800,000 copies; Angels: God’s Secret Agents (1975) sold 1 million copies within 90 days; and The Jesus Generation (1971) sold 200,000 copies in the first two weeks. Billy Graham preaches in front of thousands at the 1977 India Good News Festival in Madras—modern-day Chennai. In October 1974, the largest crowd to attend an evangelistic service in the Western Hemisphere—225,000 people—filled Rio de Janeiro’s Maracanã Stadium. In June 1973, a record 1.1 million people made Yoido Plaza in Seoul, South Korea, Billy Graham’s largest meeting ever held anywhere in the world. Mr. Graham’s counsel was sought by presidents, and his appeal in both the secular and religious arenas is evidenced by the wide range of groups that have honored him, including numerous honorary doctorates from many institutions in the U.S. and abroad.Recognitions include the Ronald Reagan Presidential Foundation Freedom Award (2000) for contributions to the cause of freedom, the Congressional Gold Medal (1996), the Templeton Foundation Prize for Progress in Religion (1982), and the Big Brother Award for his work on behalf of the welfare of children (1966). In 1964 he received the Speaker of the Year Award and was cited by the George Washington Carver Memorial Institute for his contributions to race relations. He was recognized by the Anti-Defamation League of the B’nai B’rith in 1969 and the National Conference of Christians and Jews in 1971 for his efforts to foster a better understanding among all faiths. In December 2001 he was presented with an honorary knighthood, Honorary Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire (KBE), for his international contribution to civic and religious life over 60 years.Mr. Graham was listed by the Gallup organization as one of the “Ten Most Admired Men in the World” whom it described as the dominant figure in that poll since 1948—making an unparalleled 61st appearance and 55th consecutive appearance in 2017. He also appeared on the covers of Time, Newsweek, Life, U.S. News and World Report, Parade, and numerous other magazines and was the subject of many newspaper and magazine feature articles and books.Mr. Graham lost his wife of nearly 64 years, Ruth Bell Graham, in June of 2007. Together they had three daughters, two sons, 19 grandchildren, 44 great-grandchildren, and nine great-great-grandchildren. Mr. Graham lived in their home in the mountains of North Carolina until his death on Feb. 21, 2018. Billy and Ruth Bell Graham were married for nearly 64 years and he often referred to her as the greatest Christian he had ever known. After his death, Billy Graham became only the fourth private citizen to lie in honor in the Capitol Rotunda. Biography BornNovember 7, 1918Charlotte, North CarolinaDiedFebruary 21, 2018ParentsWilliam Franklin Graham Sr. (deceased 1962) and Morrow Coffey Graham (deceased 1981) MarriedRuth McCue Bell, 1943 (deceased 2007)ChildrenVirginia, 1945Anne Morrow, 1948Ruth Bell, 1950William Franklin III, 1952Nelson Edman, 1958 Grandchildren19 grandchildren, 44 great-grandchildren and nine great-great-grandchildrenResidenceIn the mountains of western North CarolinaEducationGraduated, Florida Bible Institute (now Trinity College of Florida), 1940Wheaton College, Wheaton, Illinois (B.A.), 1943 Vocation 1939: Ordained to the ministry by Peniel Baptist Church, Palatka, Fla. (a church in the Southern Baptist Convention)1941: Pastor, The United Gospel Tabernacle, Wheaton, Illinois1943–45: Pastor, The Village Church of Western Springs (now Western Springs Baptist Church), Western Springs, Ill 1945–50: Charter Vice President, Youth for Christ International, Chicago, Ill.1947–52: President, Northwestern Schools, consisting of three institutions: a liberal arts college, Bible school and theological seminary 1950: Founded Billy Graham Evangelistic Association, Minneapolis, Minn.1950: Began weekly “Hour of Decision” radio program, which was heard around the world for more than 60 years Awards & Honors "Ten Most Admired Men in the World" from the Gallup Poll since 1948—a total of 61 times, including 55 consecutive as of 2017—more than any other individual in the world, placing him at the head of the overall list of those most admired by Americans for the past six decadesClergyman of the Year from the National Pilgrim SocietyDistinguished Service Medal of The Salvation ArmyWho’s Who in America annually since 1954Freedoms Foundation Distinguished Persons Award (numerous years)Gold Medal Award, National Institute of Social Science, New York, 1957Annual Gutenberg Award of the Chicago Bible Society, 1963Gold Award of the George Washington Carver Memorial Institute, 1964, for contribution to race relations, presented by Senator Javits (NY)Speaker of the Year Award, 1964Golden Plate Award, American Academy of Achievement, 1965Horatio Alger Award, 1965National Citizenship Award by the Military Chaplains Association of the U.S.A., 1965Wisdom Award of Honor, 1965Big Brother of the Year Award, at the White House, Washington, D.C., 1966, for contribution to the welfare of children The Torch of Liberty Plaque by the Anti-Defamation League of B’nai B’rith, 1969George Washington Honor Medal from Freedoms Foundation of Valley Forge, Pennsylvania, for his sermon “The Violent Society,” 1969Honored by Morality in Media for “fostering the principles of truth, taste, inspiration and love in media,” 1969International Brotherhood Award from the National Conference of Christians and Jews, 1971Distinguished Service Award from the National Association of Broadcasters, 1972Franciscan International Award, 1972Sylvanus Thayer Award from United States Military Academy Association of Graduates at West Point (The most prestigious award the United States Military Academy gives to a U.S. citizen.), 1972George Washington Medal Award for Patriotism from Freedoms Foundation of Valley Forge, 1974Direct Selling Association’s Salesman of the Decade Award, 1975Philip Award from the Association of United Methodist Evangelists, 1976First National Interreligious Award, American Jewish Committee, 1977Distinguished Communications Medal, Southern Baptist Radio and Television Commission, 1977 Jabotinsky Centennial Medal presented by The Jabotinsky Foundation, 1980Religious Broadcasting Hall of Fame Award, 1981Templeton Foundation Prize for Progress in Religion Award, 1982Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation’s highest civilian award, 1983National Religious Broadcasters Award of Merit, 1986North Carolina Award in Public Service, 1986Good Housekeeping Most Admired Men Poll, 1997, #1 for five years in a row and 16th time in top 10Congressional Gold Medal, highest honor Congress can bestow on a private citizen, 1996Inducted into the Gospel Music Hall of Fame by the Gospel Music Association—the first nonmusician to be inducted, 1999Ronald Reagan Presidential Foundation Freedom Award, for monumental and lasting contributions to the cause of freedom, 2000Honorary Knight Commander of the order of the British Empire (KBE) for his international contribution to civic and religious life over 60 years, 2001Charlotte Broadcast Hall of Fame, inaugural class, 2015Many honorary degrees On May 16, 2024, a bronze statue of Billy Graham was unveiled at the U.S. Capitol and installed as part of the National Statuary Hall Collection, pointing future generations to the Gospel that he preached for decades. The seven-foot sculpture features Billy Graham holding an open Bible atop a pedestal engraved with two Bible verses: John 3:16 and John 14:6. It stands in the Crypt where every public tour of the Capitol begins. Published 1947: Calling Youth to Christ1952: Author of syndicated newspaper column My Answer carried by newspapers across the country with a combined circulation of 5 million readers1953: I Saw Your Sons at War: The Korean Diary of Billy Graham1953: Peace With God: How to Choose in the Hour of Decision—over 2 million copies sold in 38 languages, revised and expanded in 19841955: Freedom From the Seven Deadly Sins1955: The Secret of Happiness1958: Billy Graham Talks to Teen-Agers1960: My Answer1960: Billy Graham Answers Your Questions1965: World Aflame—The New York Times and Time magazine bestseller lists for several weeks1969: The Challenge: Sermons from the historic New York Crusade 1971: The Jesus Generation1975: Angels: God’s Secret Agents—Publishers Weekly and The New York Times bestseller lists (21 weeks each), Evangelical Christian Publishers Association (ECPA) Platinum Book Award1977: How to Be Born Again1978: The Holy Spirit: Activating God's Power in Your Life—ECPA Gold Book Award1981: Till Armageddon: A Perspective on Suffering—ECPA Platinum Book Award1983: Approaching Hoofbeats: The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse—The New York Times bestseller list, ECPA Gold Book Award1984: A Biblical Standard For Evangelists: A commentary on the fifteen Affirmations made by participants at the International Conference for Itinerant Evangelists in Amsterdam, The Netherlands—July 1983.1986: Unto the Hills1987: Facing Death and the Life After—Christian Booksellers Association bestseller list (21 weeks) 1988: Answers to Life’s Problems: Guidance, Inspiration and Hope for the Challenges of Today1991: Hope for the Troubled Heart: Finding God in the Midst of Pain1992: Storm Warning: Whether Global Recession, Terrorist Threats, or Devastating Natural Disasters, These Ominous Shadows Must Bring Us Back to the Gospel1997: Just As I Am2002: Hope for Each Day2003: The Key to Personal Peace2005: Living in God’s Love: The New York Crusade2006: The Journey: Living by Faith in an Uncertain World2008: Wisdom for Each Day2010: Storm Warning: Whether Global Recession, Terrorist Threats, or Devastating Natural Disasters, These Ominous Shadows Must Bring Us Back to the Gospel (International Edition)2011: Nearing Home: Life, Faith, and Finishing Well2012: The Heaven Answer Book2013: The Reason for My Hope: Salvation2015: Where I Am: Heaven, Eternity, and Our Life Beyond William (Billy) F. Graham Jr.Evangelist and Chairman of the Board Evangelist Billy Graham took Christ literally when He said in Mark 16:15, “Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature.”Mr. Graham preached the Gospel to nearly 215 million people in more than 185 countries and territories through various meetings, including Mission World and Global Mission. Hundreds of millions more have been reached through television, video, film, and webcasts.Beginning with the 1949 Los Angeles Crusade, which vaulted Mr. Graham into the public eye, he led hundreds of thousands of individuals to make personal decisions to live for Christ, the main thrust of his decadeslong ministry. Born Nov. 7, 1918, four days before the armistice ended World War I, Mr. Graham was reared on a dairy farm in Charlotte, North Carolina. Growing up during the Depression, he learned the value of hard work on the family farm, but he also found time to spend many hours in the hayloft reading books on a wide variety of subjects.In the fall of 1934, at age 15, Mr. Graham made a personal commitment to Christ through the ministry of Mordecai Ham, a traveling evangelist, who visited Charlotte for a series of revival meetings.Ordained in 1939 by Peniel Baptist Church in Palatka, Florida (a church in the Southern Baptist Convention), Mr. Graham received a solid foundation in the Scriptures at Florida Bible Institute (now Trinity College of Florida). In 1943 he graduated from Wheaton College in Illinois and married fellow student Ruth McCue Bell, daughter of a missionary surgeon, who spent the first 17 years of her life in China. William (Billy) F. Graham Jr.Evangelist and Chairman of the Board Evangelist Billy Graham took Christ literally when He said in Mark 16:15, “Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature.”Mr. Graham preached the Gospel to nearly 215 million people in more than 185 countries and territories through various meetings, including Mission World and Global Mission. Hundreds of millions more have been reached through television, video, film, and webcasts.Beginning with the 1949 Los Angeles Crusade, which vaulted Mr. Graham into the public eye, he led hundreds of thousands of individuals to make personal decisions to live for Christ, the main thrust of his decadeslong ministry. Born Nov. 7, 1918, four days before the armistice ended World War I, Mr. Graham was reared on a dairy farm in Charlotte, North Carolina. Growing up during the Depression, he learned the value of hard work on the family farm, but he also found time to spend many hours in the hayloft reading books on a wide variety of subjects.In the fall of 1934, at age 15, Mr. Graham made a personal commitment to Christ through the ministry of Mordecai Ham, a traveling evangelist, who visited Charlotte for a series of revival meetings.Ordained in 1939 by Peniel Baptist Church in Palatka, Florida (a church in the Southern Baptist Convention), Mr. Graham received a solid foundation in the Scriptures at Florida Bible Institute (now Trinity College of Florida). In 1943 he graduated from Wheaton College in Illinois and married fellow student Ruth McCue Bell, daughter of a missionary surgeon, who spent the first 17 years of her life in China. William (Billy) F. Graham Jr.Evangelist and Chairman of the Board Evangelist Billy Graham took Christ literally when He said in Mark 16:15, “Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature.”Mr. Graham preached the Gospel to nearly 215 million people in more than 185 countries and territories through various meetings, including Mission World and Global Mission. Hundreds of millions more have been reached through television, video, film, and webcasts.Beginning with the 1949 Los Angeles Crusade, which vaulted Mr. Graham into the public eye, he led hundreds of thousands of individuals to make personal decisions to live for Christ, the main thrust of his decadeslong ministry. Born Nov. 7, 1918, four days before the armistice ended World War I, Mr. Graham was reared on a dairy farm in Charlotte, North Carolina. Growing up during the Depression, he learned the value of hard work on the family farm, but he also found time to spend many hours in the hayloft reading books on a wide variety of subjects.In the fall of 1934, at age 15, Mr. Graham made a personal commitment to Christ through the ministry of Mordecai Ham, a traveling evangelist, who visited Charlotte for a series of revival meetings.Ordained in 1939 by Peniel Baptist Church in Palatka, Florida (a church in the Southern Baptist Convention), Mr. Graham received a solid foundation in the Scriptures at Florida Bible Institute (now Trinity College of Florida). In 1943 he graduated from Wheaton College in Illinois and married fellow student Ruth McCue Bell, daughter of a missionary surgeon, who spent the first 17 years of her life in China. William (Billy) F. Graham Jr.Evangelist and Chairman of the Board Evangelist Billy Graham took Christ literally when He said in Mark 16:15, “Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature.”Mr. Graham preached the Gospel to nearly 215 million people in more than 185 countries and territories through various meetings, including Mission World and Global Mission. Hundreds of millions more have been reached through television, video, film, and webcasts.Beginning with the 1949 Los Angeles Crusade, which vaulted Mr. Graham into the public eye, he led hundreds of thousands of individuals to make personal decisions to live for Christ, the main thrust of his decadeslong ministry. William (Billy) F. Graham Jr.Evangelist and Chairman of the Board Evangelist Billy Graham took Christ literally when He said in Mark 16:15, “Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature.”Mr. Graham preached the Gospel to nearly 215 million people in more than 185 countries and territories through various meetings, including Mission World and Global Mission. Hundreds of millions more have been reached through television, video, film, and webcasts.Beginning with the 1949 Los Angeles Crusade, which vaulted Mr. Graham into the public eye, he led hundreds of thousands of individuals to make personal decisions to live for Christ, the main thrust of his decadeslong ministry. William (Billy) F. Graham Jr.Evangelist and Chairman of the Board Evangelist Billy Graham took Christ literally when He said in Mark 16:15, “Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature.”Mr. Graham preached the Gospel to nearly 215 million people in more than 185 countries and territories through various meetings, including Mission World and Global Mission. Hundreds of millions more have been reached through television, video, film, and webcasts.Beginning with the 1949 Los Angeles Crusade, which vaulted Mr. Graham into the public eye, he led hundreds of thousands of individuals to make personal decisions to live for Christ, the main thrust of his decadeslong ministry. William (Billy) F. Graham Jr. Evangelist and Chairman of the Board Evangelist Billy Graham took Christ literally when He said in Mark 16:15, “Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature.” Mr. Graham preached the Gospel to nearly 215 million people in more than 185 countries and territories through various meetings, including Mission World and Global Mission. Hundreds of millions more have been reached through television, video, film, and webcasts. Beginning with the 1949 Los Angeles Crusade, which vaulted Mr. Graham into the public eye, he led hundreds of thousands of individuals to make personal decisions to live for Christ, the main thrust of his decadeslong ministry. Born Nov. 7, 1918, four days before the armistice ended World War I, Mr. Graham was reared on a dairy farm in Charlotte, North Carolina. Growing up during the Depression, he learned the value of hard work on the family farm, but he also found time to spend many hours in the hayloft reading books on a wide variety of subjects.In the fall of 1934, at age 15, Mr. Graham made a personal commitment to Christ through the ministry of Mordecai Ham, a traveling evangelist, who visited Charlotte for a series of revival meetings.Ordained in 1939 by Peniel Baptist Church in Palatka, Florida (a church in the Southern Baptist Convention), Mr. Graham received a solid foundation in the Scriptures at Florida Bible Institute (now Trinity College of Florida). In 1943 he graduated from Wheaton College in Illinois and married fellow student Ruth McCue Bell, daughter of a missionary surgeon, who spent the first 17 years of her life in China. Born Nov. 7, 1918, four days before the armistice ended World War I, Mr. Graham was reared on a dairy farm in Charlotte, North Carolina. Growing up during the Depression, he learned the value of hard work on the family farm, but he also found time to spend many hours in the hayloft reading books on a wide variety of subjects.In the fall of 1934, at age 15, Mr. Graham made a personal commitment to Christ through the ministry of Mordecai Ham, a traveling evangelist, who visited Charlotte for a series of revival meetings.Ordained in 1939 by Peniel Baptist Church in Palatka, Florida (a church in the Southern Baptist Convention), Mr. Graham received a solid foundation in the Scriptures at Florida Bible Institute (now Trinity College of Florida). In 1943 he graduated from Wheaton College in Illinois and married fellow student Ruth McCue Bell, daughter of a missionary surgeon, who spent the first 17 years of her life in China. Born Nov. 7, 1918, four days before the armistice ended World War I, Mr. Graham was reared on a dairy farm in Charlotte, North Carolina. Growing up during the Depression, he learned the value of hard work on the family farm, but he also found time to spend many hours in the hayloft reading books on a wide variety of subjects.In the fall of 1934, at age 15, Mr. Graham made a personal commitment to Christ through the ministry of Mordecai Ham, a traveling evangelist, who visited Charlotte for a series of revival meetings.Ordained in 1939 by Peniel Baptist Church in Palatka, Florida (a church in the Southern Baptist Convention), Mr. Graham received a solid foundation in the Scriptures at Florida Bible Institute (now Trinity College of Florida). In 1943 he graduated from Wheaton College in Illinois and married fellow student Ruth McCue Bell, daughter of a missionary surgeon, who spent the first 17 years of her life in China. Born Nov. 7, 1918, four days before the armistice ended World War I, Mr. Graham was reared on a dairy farm in Charlotte, North Carolina. Growing up during the Depression, he learned the value of hard work on the family farm, but he also found time to spend many hours in the hayloft reading books on a wide variety of subjects. In the fall of 1934, at age 15, Mr. Graham made a personal commitment to Christ through the ministry of Mordecai Ham, a traveling evangelist, who visited Charlotte for a series of revival meetings. Ordained in 1939 by Peniel Baptist Church in Palatka, Florida (a church in the Southern Baptist Convention), Mr. Graham received a solid foundation in the Scriptures at Florida Bible Institute (now Trinity College of Florida). In 1943 he graduated from Wheaton College in Illinois and married fellow student Ruth McCue Bell, daughter of a missionary surgeon, who spent the first 17 years of her life in China. Billy Graham served as the first full-time evangelist of the Youth for Christ ministry in the mid-1940s. A young Billy Graham deep in thought in 1954. Billy Graham served as the first full-time evangelist of the Youth for Christ ministry in the mid-1940s. A young Billy Graham deep in thought in 1954. Billy Graham served as the first full-time evangelist of the Youth for Christ ministry in the mid-1940s. A young Billy Graham deep in thought in 1954. Billy Graham served as the first full-time evangelist of the Youth for Christ ministry in the mid-1940s. A young Billy Graham deep in thought in 1954. Billy Graham served as the first full-time evangelist of the Youth for Christ ministry in the mid-1940s. A young Billy Graham deep in thought in 1954. A crowd stands outside the Canvas Cathedral, site of Billy Graham’s 1949 Los Angeles Crusade. A crowd stands outside the Canvas Cathedral, site of Billy Graham’s 1949 Los Angeles Crusade. A crowd stands outside the Canvas Cathedral, site of Billy Graham’s 1949 Los Angeles Crusade. A crowd stands outside the Canvas Cathedral, site of Billy Graham’s 1949 Los Angeles Crusade. After graduating from college, Mr. Graham pastored The Village Church of Western Springs (now Western Springs Baptist Church) in Western Springs, Illinois, before joining Youth for Christ, an organization founded for ministry to youth and servicemen during World War II. He preached throughout the United States and in Europe in the immediate postwar era, emerging as a rising young evangelist.The Los Angeles Crusade in 1949 launched Mr. Graham into international prominence. Scheduled for three weeks, the meetings were extended to more than eight weeks, with overflow crowds filling a tent erected downtown each night.Many of his subsequent early Crusades were similarly extended, including one in London that lasted 12 weeks, and a New York City Crusade in Madison Square Garden in 1957 that ran nightly for 16 weeks.Today, Mr. Graham’s ministry is known around the globe. He preached in remote African villages and in the heart of New York City, and those to whom he ministered have ranged from heads of state to the simple living bushmen of Australia and the wandering tribes of Africa and the Middle East. Beginning in 1977, Mr. Graham was given the opportunity to conduct preaching missions in virtually every country of the former Eastern bloc, including the former Soviet Union.In 2013, Mr. Graham had the vision for proclaiming the Gospel across the United States and Canada, prompting the implementation of My Hope with Billy Graham, a grassroots evangelism outreach combining personal relationships with the power of modern media. Based upon a pioneering outreach that had already resulted in millions of decisions for Christ around the world since 2002, churches and individual Christians across the two countries were encouraged and equipped to pray and reach out to friends, family, and neighbors using a powerful new film from BGEA. Approaching 95 years of age, Mr. Graham recorded a new video message, called “The Cross,” for the project, which was made available for use in homes and churches as a tool for sharing the Gospel. After graduating from college, Mr. Graham pastored The Village Church of Western Springs (now Western Springs Baptist Church) in Western Springs, Illinois, before joining Youth for Christ, an organization founded for ministry to youth and servicemen during World War II. He preached throughout the United States and in Europe in the immediate postwar era, emerging as a rising young evangelist.The Los Angeles Crusade in 1949 launched Mr. Graham into international prominence. Scheduled for three weeks, the meetings were extended to more than eight weeks, with overflow crowds filling a tent erected downtown each night.Many of his subsequent early Crusades were similarly extended, including one in London that lasted 12 weeks, and a New York City Crusade in Madison Square Garden in 1957 that ran nightly for 16 weeks.Today, Mr. Graham’s ministry is known around the globe. He preached in remote African villages and in the heart of New York City, and those to whom he ministered have ranged from heads of state to the simple living bushmen of Australia and the wandering tribes of Africa and the Middle East. Beginning in 1977, Mr. Graham was given the opportunity to conduct preaching missions in virtually every country of the former Eastern bloc, including the former Soviet Union.In 2013, Mr. Graham had the vision for proclaiming the Gospel across the United States and Canada, prompting the implementation of My Hope with Billy Graham, a grassroots evangelism outreach combining personal relationships with the power of modern media. Based upon a pioneering outreach that had already resulted in millions of decisions for Christ around the world since 2002, churches and individual Christians across the two countries were encouraged and equipped to pray and reach out to friends, family, and neighbors using a powerful new film from BGEA. Approaching 95 years of age, Mr. Graham recorded a new video message, called “The Cross,” for the project, which was made available for use in homes and churches as a tool for sharing the Gospel. After graduating from college, Mr. Graham pastored The Village Church of Western Springs (now Western Springs Baptist Church) in Western Springs, Illinois, before joining Youth for Christ, an organization founded for ministry to youth and servicemen during World War II. He preached throughout the United States and in Europe in the immediate postwar era, emerging as a rising young evangelist.The Los Angeles Crusade in 1949 launched Mr. Graham into international prominence. Scheduled for three weeks, the meetings were extended to more than eight weeks, with overflow crowds filling a tent erected downtown each night.Many of his subsequent early Crusades were similarly extended, including one in London that lasted 12 weeks, and a New York City Crusade in Madison Square Garden in 1957 that ran nightly for 16 weeks.Today, Mr. Graham’s ministry is known around the globe. He preached in remote African villages and in the heart of New York City, and those to whom he ministered have ranged from heads of state to the simple living bushmen of Australia and the wandering tribes of Africa and the Middle East. Beginning in 1977, Mr. Graham was given the opportunity to conduct preaching missions in virtually every country of the former Eastern bloc, including the former Soviet Union.In 2013, Mr. Graham had the vision for proclaiming the Gospel across the United States and Canada, prompting the implementation of My Hope with Billy Graham, a grassroots evangelism outreach combining personal relationships with the power of modern media. Based upon a pioneering outreach that had already resulted in millions of decisions for Christ around the world since 2002, churches and individual Christians across the two countries were encouraged and equipped to pray and reach out to friends, family, and neighbors using a powerful new film from BGEA. Approaching 95 years of age, Mr. Graham recorded a new video message, called “The Cross,” for the project, which was made available for use in homes and churches as a tool for sharing the Gospel. After graduating from college, Mr. Graham pastored The Village Church of Western Springs (now Western Springs Baptist Church) in Western Springs, Illinois, before joining Youth for Christ, an organization founded for ministry to youth and servicemen during World War II. He preached throughout the United States and in Europe in the immediate postwar era, emerging as a rising young evangelist.The Los Angeles Crusade in 1949 launched Mr. Graham into international prominence. Scheduled for three weeks, the meetings were extended to more than eight weeks, with overflow crowds filling a tent erected downtown each night.Many of his subsequent early Crusades were similarly extended, including one in London that lasted 12 weeks, and a New York City Crusade in Madison Square Garden in 1957 that ran nightly for 16 weeks.Today, Mr. Graham’s ministry is known around the globe. He preached in remote African villages and in the heart of New York City, and those to whom he ministered have ranged from heads of state to the simple living bushmen of Australia and the wandering tribes of Africa and the Middle East. Beginning in 1977, Mr. Graham was given the opportunity to conduct preaching missions in virtually every country of the former Eastern bloc, including the former Soviet Union.In 2013, Mr. Graham had the vision for proclaiming the Gospel across the United States and Canada, prompting the implementation of My Hope with Billy Graham, a grassroots evangelism outreach combining personal relationships with the power of modern media. Based upon a pioneering outreach that had already resulted in millions of decisions for Christ around the world since 2002, churches and individual Christians across the two countries were encouraged and equipped to pray and reach out to friends, family, and neighbors using a powerful new film from BGEA. Approaching 95 years of age, Mr. Graham recorded a new video message, called “The Cross,” for the project, which was made available for use in homes and churches as a tool for sharing the Gospel. After graduating from college, Mr. Graham pastored The Village Church of Western Springs (now Western Springs Baptist Church) in Western Springs, Illinois, before joining Youth for Christ, an organization founded for ministry to youth and servicemen during World War II. He preached throughout the United States and in Europe in the immediate postwar era, emerging as a rising young evangelist.The Los Angeles Crusade in 1949 launched Mr. Graham into international prominence. Scheduled for three weeks, the meetings were extended to more than eight weeks, with overflow crowds filling a tent erected downtown each night.Many of his subsequent early Crusades were similarly extended, including one in London that lasted 12 weeks, and a New York City Crusade in Madison Square Garden in 1957 that ran nightly for 16 weeks.Today, Mr. Graham’s ministry is known around the globe. He preached in remote African villages and in the heart of New York City, and those to whom he ministered have ranged from heads of state to the simple living bushmen of Australia and the wandering tribes of Africa and the Middle East. Beginning in 1977, Mr. Graham was given the opportunity to conduct preaching missions in virtually every country of the former Eastern bloc, including the former Soviet Union.In 2013, Mr. Graham had the vision for proclaiming the Gospel across the United States and Canada, prompting the implementation of My Hope with Billy Graham, a grassroots evangelism outreach combining personal relationships with the power of modern media. Based upon a pioneering outreach that had already resulted in millions of decisions for Christ around the world since 2002, churches and individual Christians across the two countries were encouraged and equipped to pray and reach out to friends, family, and neighbors using a powerful new film from BGEA. Approaching 95 years of age, Mr. Graham recorded a new video message, called “The Cross,” for the project, which was made available for use in homes and churches as a tool for sharing the Gospel. After graduating from college, Mr. Graham pastored The Village Church of Western Springs (now Western Springs Baptist Church) in Western Springs, Illinois, before joining Youth for Christ, an organization founded for ministry to youth and servicemen during World War II. He preached throughout the United States and in Europe in the immediate postwar era, emerging as a rising young evangelist.The Los Angeles Crusade in 1949 launched Mr. Graham into international prominence. Scheduled for three weeks, the meetings were extended to more than eight weeks, with overflow crowds filling a tent erected downtown each night.Many of his subsequent early Crusades were similarly extended, including one in London that lasted 12 weeks, and a New York City Crusade in Madison Square Garden in 1957 that ran nightly for 16 weeks.Today, Mr. Graham’s ministry is known around the globe. He preached in remote African villages and in the heart of New York City, and those to whom he ministered have ranged from heads of state to the simple living bushmen of Australia and the wandering tribes of Africa and the Middle East. Beginning in 1977, Mr. Graham was given the opportunity to conduct preaching missions in virtually every country of the former Eastern bloc, including the former Soviet Union.In 2013, Mr. Graham had the vision for proclaiming the Gospel across the United States and Canada, prompting the implementation of My Hope with Billy Graham, a grassroots evangelism outreach combining personal relationships with the power of modern media. Based upon a pioneering outreach that had already resulted in millions of decisions for Christ around the world since 2002, churches and individual Christians across the two countries were encouraged and equipped to pray and reach out to friends, family, and neighbors using a powerful new film from BGEA. Approaching 95 years of age, Mr. Graham recorded a new video message, called “The Cross,” for the project, which was made available for use in homes and churches as a tool for sharing the Gospel. After graduating from college, Mr. Graham pastored The Village Church of Western Springs (now Western Springs Baptist Church) in Western Springs, Illinois, before joining Youth for Christ, an organization founded for ministry to youth and servicemen during World War II. He preached throughout the United States and in Europe in the immediate postwar era, emerging as a rising young evangelist. The Los Angeles Crusade in 1949 launched Mr. Graham into international prominence. Scheduled for three weeks, the meetings were extended to more than eight weeks, with overflow crowds filling a tent erected downtown each night. Many of his subsequent early Crusades were similarly extended, including one in London that lasted 12 weeks, and a New York City Crusade in Madison Square Garden in 1957 that ran nightly for 16 weeks. Today, Mr. Graham’s ministry is known around the globe. He preached in remote African villages and in the heart of New York City, and those to whom he ministered have ranged from heads of state to the simple living bushmen of Australia and the wandering tribes of Africa and the Middle East. Beginning in 1977, Mr. Graham was given the opportunity to conduct preaching missions in virtually every country of the former Eastern bloc, including the former Soviet Union. In 2013, Mr. Graham had the vision for proclaiming the Gospel across the United States and Canada, prompting the implementation of My Hope with Billy Graham, a grassroots evangelism outreach combining personal relationships with the power of modern media. Based upon a pioneering outreach that had already resulted in millions of decisions for Christ around the world since 2002, churches and individual Christians across the two countries were encouraged and equipped to pray and reach out to friends, family, and neighbors using a powerful new film from BGEA. Approaching 95 years of age, Mr. Graham recorded a new video message, called “The Cross,” for the project, which was made available for use in homes and churches as a tool for sharing the Gospel. Billy Graham’s Greater London Crusade ran for nearly three months, catapulting the American preacher into an international evangelist. Billy Graham’s Greater London Crusade ran for nearly three months, catapulting the American preacher into an international evangelist. Billy Graham’s Greater London Crusade ran for nearly three months, catapulting the American preacher into an international evangelist. Billy Graham’s Greater London Crusade ran for nearly three months, catapulting the American preacher into an international evangelist. Mr. Graham founded the Billy Graham Evangelistic Association (BGEA) in 1950, headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota, until relocating to Charlotte, North Carolina, in 2003. Through BGEA’s ministry, Mr. Graham started:the weekly Hour of Decision radio program, which was heard around the world for more than 60 years;television programs that are still broadcast today on national Christian networks;a syndicated newspaper column, My Answer, which is carried by newspapers both nationally and internationally; andDecision magazine, the official publication of the Association, which has a circulation of more than 425,000, making it one of the most widely circulated religious periodicals in the world.Mr. Graham wrote 33 books, many of which became top sellers. His autobiography Just As I Am, published in 1997, achieved a “triple crown,” appearing simultaneously on the three top bestseller lists in one week. In it, Mr. Graham reflected on his life, and decades of ministry around the world. From humble beginnings as the son of a dairy farmer in North Carolina, he shared how his unwavering faith in Christ formed and shaped his career.Mr. Graham’s most recent works include Where I Am: Heaven, Eternity, and Our Life Beyond (2015), The Reason for My Hope: Salvation (2013), The Heaven Answer Book (2012), Nearing Home: Life, Faith, and Finishing Well (2011) and Storm Warning: Whether Global Recession, Terrorist Threats, or Devastating Natural Disasters, These Ominous Shadows Must Bring Us Back to the Gospel (2010). Nearing Home was selected as the 2012 Christian Book of the Year by the Evangelical Christian Publishers Association. Of his other books, Approaching Hoofbeats: The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse (1983) was listed for several weeks on The New York Times bestseller list; How to Be Born Again (1977) had the largest first printing in publishing history at the time with 800,000 copies; Angels: God’s Secret Agents (1975) sold 1 million copies within 90 days; and The Jesus Generation (1971) sold 200,000 copies in the first two weeks. Mr. Graham founded the Billy Graham Evangelistic Association (BGEA) in 1950, headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota, until relocating to Charlotte, North Carolina, in 2003. Through BGEA’s ministry, Mr. Graham started:the weekly Hour of Decision radio program, which was heard around the world for more than 60 years;television programs that are still broadcast today on national Christian networks;a syndicated newspaper column, My Answer, which is carried by newspapers both nationally and internationally; andDecision magazine, the official publication of the Association, which has a circulation of more than 425,000, making it one of the most widely circulated religious periodicals in the world.Mr. Graham wrote 33 books, many of which became top sellers. His autobiography Just As I Am, published in 1997, achieved a “triple crown,” appearing simultaneously on the three top bestseller lists in one week. In it, Mr. Graham reflected on his life, and decades of ministry around the world. From humble beginnings as the son of a dairy farmer in North Carolina, he shared how his unwavering faith in Christ formed and shaped his career.Mr. Graham’s most recent works include Where I Am: Heaven, Eternity, and Our Life Beyond (2015), The Reason for My Hope: Salvation (2013), The Heaven Answer Book (2012), Nearing Home: Life, Faith, and Finishing Well (2011) and Storm Warning: Whether Global Recession, Terrorist Threats, or Devastating Natural Disasters, These Ominous Shadows Must Bring Us Back to the Gospel (2010). Nearing Home was selected as the 2012 Christian Book of the Year by the Evangelical Christian Publishers Association. Of his other books, Approaching Hoofbeats: The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse (1983) was listed for several weeks on The New York Times bestseller list; How to Be Born Again (1977) had the largest first printing in publishing history at the time with 800,000 copies; Angels: God’s Secret Agents (1975) sold 1 million copies within 90 days; and The Jesus Generation (1971) sold 200,000 copies in the first two weeks. Mr. Graham founded the Billy Graham Evangelistic Association (BGEA) in 1950, headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota, until relocating to Charlotte, North Carolina, in 2003. Through BGEA’s ministry, Mr. Graham started:the weekly Hour of Decision radio program, which was heard around the world for more than 60 years;television programs that are still broadcast today on national Christian networks;a syndicated newspaper column, My Answer, which is carried by newspapers both nationally and internationally; andDecision magazine, the official publication of the Association, which has a circulation of more than 425,000, making it one of the most widely circulated religious periodicals in the world.Mr. Graham wrote 33 books, many of which became top sellers. His autobiography Just As I Am, published in 1997, achieved a “triple crown,” appearing simultaneously on the three top bestseller lists in one week. In it, Mr. Graham reflected on his life, and decades of ministry around the world. From humble beginnings as the son of a dairy farmer in North Carolina, he shared how his unwavering faith in Christ formed and shaped his career.Mr. Graham’s most recent works include Where I Am: Heaven, Eternity, and Our Life Beyond (2015), The Reason for My Hope: Salvation (2013), The Heaven Answer Book (2012), Nearing Home: Life, Faith, and Finishing Well (2011) and Storm Warning: Whether Global Recession, Terrorist Threats, or Devastating Natural Disasters, These Ominous Shadows Must Bring Us Back to the Gospel (2010). Nearing Home was selected as the 2012 Christian Book of the Year by the Evangelical Christian Publishers Association. Of his other books, Approaching Hoofbeats: The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse (1983) was listed for several weeks on The New York Times bestseller list; How to Be Born Again (1977) had the largest first printing in publishing history at the time with 800,000 copies; Angels: God’s Secret Agents (1975) sold 1 million copies within 90 days; and The Jesus Generation (1971) sold 200,000 copies in the first two weeks. Mr. Graham founded the Billy Graham Evangelistic Association (BGEA) in 1950, headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota, until relocating to Charlotte, North Carolina, in 2003. Through BGEA’s ministry, Mr. Graham started:the weekly Hour of Decision radio program, which was heard around the world for more than 60 years;television programs that are still broadcast today on national Christian networks;a syndicated newspaper column, My Answer, which is carried by newspapers both nationally and internationally; andDecision magazine, the official publication of the Association, which has a circulation of more than 425,000, making it one of the most widely circulated religious periodicals in the world.Mr. Graham wrote 33 books, many of which became top sellers. His autobiography Just As I Am, published in 1997, achieved a “triple crown,” appearing simultaneously on the three top bestseller lists in one week. In it, Mr. Graham reflected on his life, and decades of ministry around the world. From humble beginnings as the son of a dairy farmer in North Carolina, he shared how his unwavering faith in Christ formed and shaped his career.Mr. Graham’s most recent works include Where I Am: Heaven, Eternity, and Our Life Beyond (2015), The Reason for My Hope: Salvation (2013), The Heaven Answer Book (2012), Nearing Home: Life, Faith, and Finishing Well (2011) and Storm Warning: Whether Global Recession, Terrorist Threats, or Devastating Natural Disasters, These Ominous Shadows Must Bring Us Back to the Gospel (2010). Nearing Home was selected as the 2012 Christian Book of the Year by the Evangelical Christian Publishers Association. Of his other books, Approaching Hoofbeats: The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse (1983) was listed for several weeks on The New York Times bestseller list; How to Be Born Again (1977) had the largest first printing in publishing history at the time with 800,000 copies; Angels: God’s Secret Agents (1975) sold 1 million copies within 90 days; and The Jesus Generation (1971) sold 200,000 copies in the first two weeks. Mr. Graham founded the Billy Graham Evangelistic Association (BGEA) in 1950, headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota, until relocating to Charlotte, North Carolina, in 2003. Through BGEA’s ministry, Mr. Graham started:the weekly Hour of Decision radio program, which was heard around the world for more than 60 years;television programs that are still broadcast today on national Christian networks;a syndicated newspaper column, My Answer, which is carried by newspapers both nationally and internationally; andDecision magazine, the official publication of the Association, which has a circulation of more than 425,000, making it one of the most widely circulated religious periodicals in the world.Mr. Graham wrote 33 books, many of which became top sellers. His autobiography Just As I Am, published in 1997, achieved a “triple crown,” appearing simultaneously on the three top bestseller lists in one week. In it, Mr. Graham reflected on his life, and decades of ministry around the world. From humble beginnings as the son of a dairy farmer in North Carolina, he shared how his unwavering faith in Christ formed and shaped his career.Mr. Graham’s most recent works include Where I Am: Heaven, Eternity, and Our Life Beyond (2015), The Reason for My Hope: Salvation (2013), The Heaven Answer Book (2012), Nearing Home: Life, Faith, and Finishing Well (2011) and Storm Warning: Whether Global Recession, Terrorist Threats, or Devastating Natural Disasters, These Ominous Shadows Must Bring Us Back to the Gospel (2010). Nearing Home was selected as the 2012 Christian Book of the Year by the Evangelical Christian Publishers Association. Of his other books, Approaching Hoofbeats: The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse (1983) was listed for several weeks on The New York Times bestseller list; How to Be Born Again (1977) had the largest first printing in publishing history at the time with 800,000 copies; Angels: God’s Secret Agents (1975) sold 1 million copies within 90 days; and The Jesus Generation (1971) sold 200,000 copies in the first two weeks. Mr. Graham founded the Billy Graham Evangelistic Association (BGEA) in 1950, headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota, until relocating to Charlotte, North Carolina, in 2003. Through BGEA’s ministry, Mr. Graham started:the weekly Hour of Decision radio program, which was heard around the world for more than 60 years;television programs that are still broadcast today on national Christian networks;a syndicated newspaper column, My Answer, which is carried by newspapers both nationally and internationally; andDecision magazine, the official publication of the Association, which has a circulation of more than 425,000, making it one of the most widely circulated religious periodicals in the world.Mr. Graham wrote 33 books, many of which became top sellers. His autobiography Just As I Am, published in 1997, achieved a “triple crown,” appearing simultaneously on the three top bestseller lists in one week. In it, Mr. Graham reflected on his life, and decades of ministry around the world. From humble beginnings as the son of a dairy farmer in North Carolina, he shared how his unwavering faith in Christ formed and shaped his career.Mr. Graham’s most recent works include Where I Am: Heaven, Eternity, and Our Life Beyond (2015), The Reason for My Hope: Salvation (2013), The Heaven Answer Book (2012), Nearing Home: Life, Faith, and Finishing Well (2011) and Storm Warning: Whether Global Recession, Terrorist Threats, or Devastating Natural Disasters, These Ominous Shadows Must Bring Us Back to the Gospel (2010). Nearing Home was selected as the 2012 Christian Book of the Year by the Evangelical Christian Publishers Association. Of his other books, Approaching Hoofbeats: The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse (1983) was listed for several weeks on The New York Times bestseller list; How to Be Born Again (1977) had the largest first printing in publishing history at the time with 800,000 copies; Angels: God’s Secret Agents (1975) sold 1 million copies within 90 days; and The Jesus Generation (1971) sold 200,000 copies in the first two weeks. Mr. Graham founded the Billy Graham Evangelistic Association (BGEA) in 1950, headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota, until relocating to Charlotte, North Carolina, in 2003. Through BGEA’s ministry, Mr. Graham started: the weekly Hour of Decision radio program, which was heard around the world for more than 60 years; television programs that are still broadcast today on national Christian networks; a syndicated newspaper column, My Answer, which is carried by newspapers both nationally and internationally; and Decision magazine, the official publication of the Association, which has a circulation of more than 425,000, making it one of the most widely circulated religious periodicals in the world. Mr. Graham wrote 33 books, many of which became top sellers. His autobiography Just As I Am, published in 1997, achieved a “triple crown,” appearing simultaneously on the three top bestseller lists in one week. In it, Mr. Graham reflected on his life, and decades of ministry around the world. From humble beginnings as the son of a dairy farmer in North Carolina, he shared how his unwavering faith in Christ formed and shaped his career. Mr. Graham’s most recent works include Where I Am: Heaven, Eternity, and Our Life Beyond (2015), The Reason for My Hope: Salvation (2013), The Heaven Answer Book (2012), Nearing Home: Life, Faith, and Finishing Well (2011) and Storm Warning: Whether Global Recession, Terrorist Threats, or Devastating Natural Disasters, These Ominous Shadows Must Bring Us Back to the Gospel (2010). Nearing Home was selected as the 2012 Christian Book of the Year by the Evangelical Christian Publishers Association. Of his other books, Approaching Hoofbeats: The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse (1983) was listed for several weeks on The New York Times bestseller list; How to Be Born Again (1977) had the largest first printing in publishing history at the time with 800,000 copies; Angels: God’s Secret Agents (1975) sold 1 million copies within 90 days; and The Jesus Generation (1971) sold 200,000 copies in the first two weeks. Billy Graham preaches in front of thousands at the 1977 India Good News Festival in Madras—modern-day Chennai. In October 1974, the largest crowd to attend an evangelistic service in the Western Hemisphere—225,000 people—filled Rio de Janeiro’s Maracanã Stadium. Billy Graham preaches in front of thousands at the 1977 India Good News Festival in Madras—modern-day Chennai. In October 1974, the largest crowd to attend an evangelistic service in the Western Hemisphere—225,000 people—filled Rio de Janeiro’s Maracanã Stadium. Billy Graham preaches in front of thousands at the 1977 India Good News Festival in Madras—modern-day Chennai. In October 1974, the largest crowd to attend an evangelistic service in the Western Hemisphere—225,000 people—filled Rio de Janeiro’s Maracanã Stadium. Billy Graham preaches in front of thousands at the 1977 India Good News Festival in Madras—modern-day Chennai. In October 1974, the largest crowd to attend an evangelistic service in the Western Hemisphere—225,000 people—filled Rio de Janeiro’s Maracanã Stadium. Billy Graham preaches in front of thousands at the 1977 India Good News Festival in Madras—modern-day Chennai. In October 1974, the largest crowd to attend an evangelistic service in the Western Hemisphere—225,000 people—filled Rio de Janeiro’s Maracanã Stadium. In June 1973, a record 1.1 million people made Yoido Plaza in Seoul, South Korea, Billy Graham’s largest meeting ever held anywhere in the world. In June 1973, a record 1.1 million people made Yoido Plaza in Seoul, South Korea, Billy Graham’s largest meeting ever held anywhere in the world. In June 1973, a record 1.1 million people made Yoido Plaza in Seoul, South Korea, Billy Graham’s largest meeting ever held anywhere in the world. In June 1973, a record 1.1 million people made Yoido Plaza in Seoul, South Korea, Billy Graham’s largest meeting ever held anywhere in the world. Mr. Graham’s counsel was sought by presidents, and his appeal in both the secular and religious arenas is evidenced by the wide range of groups that have honored him, including numerous honorary doctorates from many institutions in the U.S. and abroad.Recognitions include the Ronald Reagan Presidential Foundation Freedom Award (2000) for contributions to the cause of freedom, the Congressional Gold Medal (1996), the Templeton Foundation Prize for Progress in Religion (1982), and the Big Brother Award for his work on behalf of the welfare of children (1966). In 1964 he received the Speaker of the Year Award and was cited by the George Washington Carver Memorial Institute for his contributions to race relations. He was recognized by the Anti-Defamation League of the B’nai B’rith in 1969 and the National Conference of Christians and Jews in 1971 for his efforts to foster a better understanding among all faiths. In December 2001 he was presented with an honorary knighthood, Honorary Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire (KBE), for his international contribution to civic and religious life over 60 years.Mr. Graham was listed by the Gallup organization as one of the “Ten Most Admired Men in the World” whom it described as the dominant figure in that poll since 1948—making an unparalleled 61st appearance and 55th consecutive appearance in 2017. He also appeared on the covers of Time, Newsweek, Life, U.S. News and World Report, Parade, and numerous other magazines and was the subject of many newspaper and magazine feature articles and books.Mr. Graham lost his wife of nearly 64 years, Ruth Bell Graham, in June of 2007. Together they had three daughters, two sons, 19 grandchildren, 44 great-grandchildren, and nine great-great-grandchildren. Mr. Graham lived in their home in the mountains of North Carolina until his death on Feb. 21, 2018. Mr. Graham’s counsel was sought by presidents, and his appeal in both the secular and religious arenas is evidenced by the wide range of groups that have honored him, including numerous honorary doctorates from many institutions in the U.S. and abroad.Recognitions include the Ronald Reagan Presidential Foundation Freedom Award (2000) for contributions to the cause of freedom, the Congressional Gold Medal (1996), the Templeton Foundation Prize for Progress in Religion (1982), and the Big Brother Award for his work on behalf of the welfare of children (1966). In 1964 he received the Speaker of the Year Award and was cited by the George Washington Carver Memorial Institute for his contributions to race relations. He was recognized by the Anti-Defamation League of the B’nai B’rith in 1969 and the National Conference of Christians and Jews in 1971 for his efforts to foster a better understanding among all faiths. In December 2001 he was presented with an honorary knighthood, Honorary Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire (KBE), for his international contribution to civic and religious life over 60 years.Mr. Graham was listed by the Gallup organization as one of the “Ten Most Admired Men in the World” whom it described as the dominant figure in that poll since 1948—making an unparalleled 61st appearance and 55th consecutive appearance in 2017. He also appeared on the covers of Time, Newsweek, Life, U.S. News and World Report, Parade, and numerous other magazines and was the subject of many newspaper and magazine feature articles and books.Mr. Graham lost his wife of nearly 64 years, Ruth Bell Graham, in June of 2007. Together they had three daughters, two sons, 19 grandchildren, 44 great-grandchildren, and nine great-great-grandchildren. Mr. Graham lived in their home in the mountains of North Carolina until his death on Feb. 21, 2018. Mr. Graham’s counsel was sought by presidents, and his appeal in both the secular and religious arenas is evidenced by the wide range of groups that have honored him, including numerous honorary doctorates from many institutions in the U.S. and abroad.Recognitions include the Ronald Reagan Presidential Foundation Freedom Award (2000) for contributions to the cause of freedom, the Congressional Gold Medal (1996), the Templeton Foundation Prize for Progress in Religion (1982), and the Big Brother Award for his work on behalf of the welfare of children (1966). In 1964 he received the Speaker of the Year Award and was cited by the George Washington Carver Memorial Institute for his contributions to race relations. He was recognized by the Anti-Defamation League of the B’nai B’rith in 1969 and the National Conference of Christians and Jews in 1971 for his efforts to foster a better understanding among all faiths. In December 2001 he was presented with an honorary knighthood, Honorary Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire (KBE), for his international contribution to civic and religious life over 60 years.Mr. Graham was listed by the Gallup organization as one of the “Ten Most Admired Men in the World” whom it described as the dominant figure in that poll since 1948—making an unparalleled 61st appearance and 55th consecutive appearance in 2017. He also appeared on the covers of Time, Newsweek, Life, U.S. News and World Report, Parade, and numerous other magazines and was the subject of many newspaper and magazine feature articles and books.Mr. Graham lost his wife of nearly 64 years, Ruth Bell Graham, in June of 2007. Together they had three daughters, two sons, 19 grandchildren, 44 great-grandchildren, and nine great-great-grandchildren. Mr. Graham lived in their home in the mountains of North Carolina until his death on Feb. 21, 2018. Mr. Graham’s counsel was sought by presidents, and his appeal in both the secular and religious arenas is evidenced by the wide range of groups that have honored him, including numerous honorary doctorates from many institutions in the U.S. and abroad.Recognitions include the Ronald Reagan Presidential Foundation Freedom Award (2000) for contributions to the cause of freedom, the Congressional Gold Medal (1996), the Templeton Foundation Prize for Progress in Religion (1982), and the Big Brother Award for his work on behalf of the welfare of children (1966). In 1964 he received the Speaker of the Year Award and was cited by the George Washington Carver Memorial Institute for his contributions to race relations. He was recognized by the Anti-Defamation League of the B’nai B’rith in 1969 and the National Conference of Christians and Jews in 1971 for his efforts to foster a better understanding among all faiths. In December 2001 he was presented with an honorary knighthood, Honorary Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire (KBE), for his international contribution to civic and religious life over 60 years.Mr. Graham was listed by the Gallup organization as one of the “Ten Most Admired Men in the World” whom it described as the dominant figure in that poll since 1948—making an unparalleled 61st appearance and 55th consecutive appearance in 2017. He also appeared on the covers of Time, Newsweek, Life, U.S. News and World Report, Parade, and numerous other magazines and was the subject of many newspaper and magazine feature articles and books.Mr. Graham lost his wife of nearly 64 years, Ruth Bell Graham, in June of 2007. Together they had three daughters, two sons, 19 grandchildren, 44 great-grandchildren, and nine great-great-grandchildren. Mr. Graham lived in their home in the mountains of North Carolina until his death on Feb. 21, 2018. Mr. Graham’s counsel was sought by presidents, and his appeal in both the secular and religious arenas is evidenced by the wide range of groups that have honored him, including numerous honorary doctorates from many institutions in the U.S. and abroad.Recognitions include the Ronald Reagan Presidential Foundation Freedom Award (2000) for contributions to the cause of freedom, the Congressional Gold Medal (1996), the Templeton Foundation Prize for Progress in Religion (1982), and the Big Brother Award for his work on behalf of the welfare of children (1966). In 1964 he received the Speaker of the Year Award and was cited by the George Washington Carver Memorial Institute for his contributions to race relations. He was recognized by the Anti-Defamation League of the B’nai B’rith in 1969 and the National Conference of Christians and Jews in 1971 for his efforts to foster a better understanding among all faiths. In December 2001 he was presented with an honorary knighthood, Honorary Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire (KBE), for his international contribution to civic and religious life over 60 years.Mr. Graham was listed by the Gallup organization as one of the “Ten Most Admired Men in the World” whom it described as the dominant figure in that poll since 1948—making an unparalleled 61st appearance and 55th consecutive appearance in 2017. He also appeared on the covers of Time, Newsweek, Life, U.S. News and World Report, Parade, and numerous other magazines and was the subject of many newspaper and magazine feature articles and books.Mr. Graham lost his wife of nearly 64 years, Ruth Bell Graham, in June of 2007. Together they had three daughters, two sons, 19 grandchildren, 44 great-grandchildren, and nine great-great-grandchildren. Mr. Graham lived in their home in the mountains of North Carolina until his death on Feb. 21, 2018. Mr. Graham’s counsel was sought by presidents, and his appeal in both the secular and religious arenas is evidenced by the wide range of groups that have honored him, including numerous honorary doctorates from many institutions in the U.S. and abroad.Recognitions include the Ronald Reagan Presidential Foundation Freedom Award (2000) for contributions to the cause of freedom, the Congressional Gold Medal (1996), the Templeton Foundation Prize for Progress in Religion (1982), and the Big Brother Award for his work on behalf of the welfare of children (1966). In 1964 he received the Speaker of the Year Award and was cited by the George Washington Carver Memorial Institute for his contributions to race relations. He was recognized by the Anti-Defamation League of the B’nai B’rith in 1969 and the National Conference of Christians and Jews in 1971 for his efforts to foster a better understanding among all faiths. In December 2001 he was presented with an honorary knighthood, Honorary Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire (KBE), for his international contribution to civic and religious life over 60 years.Mr. Graham was listed by the Gallup organization as one of the “Ten Most Admired Men in the World” whom it described as the dominant figure in that poll since 1948—making an unparalleled 61st appearance and 55th consecutive appearance in 2017. He also appeared on the covers of Time, Newsweek, Life, U.S. News and World Report, Parade, and numerous other magazines and was the subject of many newspaper and magazine feature articles and books.Mr. Graham lost his wife of nearly 64 years, Ruth Bell Graham, in June of 2007. Together they had three daughters, two sons, 19 grandchildren, 44 great-grandchildren, and nine great-great-grandchildren. Mr. Graham lived in their home in the mountains of North Carolina until his death on Feb. 21, 2018. Mr. Graham’s counsel was sought by presidents, and his appeal in both the secular and religious arenas is evidenced by the wide range of groups that have honored him, including numerous honorary doctorates from many institutions in the U.S. and abroad. Recognitions include the Ronald Reagan Presidential Foundation Freedom Award (2000) for contributions to the cause of freedom, the Congressional Gold Medal (1996), the Templeton Foundation Prize for Progress in Religion (1982), and the Big Brother Award for his work on behalf of the welfare of children (1966). In 1964 he received the Speaker of the Year Award and was cited by the George Washington Carver Memorial Institute for his contributions to race relations. He was recognized by the Anti-Defamation League of the B’nai B’rith in 1969 and the National Conference of Christians and Jews in 1971 for his efforts to foster a better understanding among all faiths. In December 2001 he was presented with an honorary knighthood, Honorary Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire (KBE), for his international contribution to civic and religious life over 60 years. Mr. Graham was listed by the Gallup organization as one of the “Ten Most Admired Men in the World” whom it described as the dominant figure in that poll since 1948—making an unparalleled 61st appearance and 55th consecutive appearance in 2017. He also appeared on the covers of Time, Newsweek, Life, U.S. News and World Report, Parade, and numerous other magazines and was the subject of many newspaper and magazine feature articles and books. Mr. Graham lost his wife of nearly 64 years, Ruth Bell Graham, in June of 2007. Together they had three daughters, two sons, 19 grandchildren, 44 great-grandchildren, and nine great-great-grandchildren. Mr. Graham lived in their home in the mountains of North Carolina until his death on Feb. 21, 2018. Billy and Ruth Bell Graham were married for nearly 64 years and he often referred to her as the greatest Christian he had ever known. After his death, Billy Graham became only the fourth private citizen to lie in honor in the Capitol Rotunda. Billy and Ruth Bell Graham were married for nearly 64 years and he often referred to her as the greatest Christian he had ever known. After his death, Billy Graham became only the fourth private citizen to lie in honor in the Capitol Rotunda. Billy and Ruth Bell Graham were married for nearly 64 years and he often referred to her as the greatest Christian he had ever known. After his death, Billy Graham became only the fourth private citizen to lie in honor in the Capitol Rotunda. Billy and Ruth Bell Graham were married for nearly 64 years and he often referred to her as the greatest Christian he had ever known. After his death, Billy Graham became only the fourth private citizen to lie in honor in the Capitol Rotunda. Billy and Ruth Bell Graham were married for nearly 64 years and he often referred to her as the greatest Christian he had ever known. After his death, Billy Graham became only the fourth private citizen to lie in honor in the Capitol Rotunda. Biography BornNovember 7, 1918Charlotte, North CarolinaDiedFebruary 21, 2018ParentsWilliam Franklin Graham Sr. (deceased 1962) and Morrow Coffey Graham (deceased 1981) MarriedRuth McCue Bell, 1943 (deceased 2007)ChildrenVirginia, 1945Anne Morrow, 1948Ruth Bell, 1950William Franklin III, 1952Nelson Edman, 1958 Grandchildren19 grandchildren, 44 great-grandchildren and nine great-great-grandchildrenResidenceIn the mountains of western North CarolinaEducationGraduated, Florida Bible Institute (now Trinity College of Florida), 1940Wheaton College, Wheaton, Illinois (B.A.), 1943 Biography BornNovember 7, 1918Charlotte, North CarolinaDiedFebruary 21, 2018ParentsWilliam Franklin Graham Sr. (deceased 1962) and Morrow Coffey Graham (deceased 1981) MarriedRuth McCue Bell, 1943 (deceased 2007)ChildrenVirginia, 1945Anne Morrow, 1948Ruth Bell, 1950William Franklin III, 1952Nelson Edman, 1958 Grandchildren19 grandchildren, 44 great-grandchildren and nine great-great-grandchildrenResidenceIn the mountains of western North CarolinaEducationGraduated, Florida Bible Institute (now Trinity College of Florida), 1940Wheaton College, Wheaton, Illinois (B.A.), 1943 Biography BornNovember 7, 1918Charlotte, North CarolinaDiedFebruary 21, 2018ParentsWilliam Franklin Graham Sr. (deceased 1962) and Morrow Coffey Graham (deceased 1981) MarriedRuth McCue Bell, 1943 (deceased 2007)ChildrenVirginia, 1945Anne Morrow, 1948Ruth Bell, 1950William Franklin III, 1952Nelson Edman, 1958 Grandchildren19 grandchildren, 44 great-grandchildren and nine great-great-grandchildrenResidenceIn the mountains of western North CarolinaEducationGraduated, Florida Bible Institute (now Trinity College of Florida), 1940Wheaton College, Wheaton, Illinois (B.A.), 1943 BornNovember 7, 1918Charlotte, North CarolinaDiedFebruary 21, 2018ParentsWilliam Franklin Graham Sr. (deceased 1962) and Morrow Coffey Graham (deceased 1981) MarriedRuth McCue Bell, 1943 (deceased 2007)ChildrenVirginia, 1945Anne Morrow, 1948Ruth Bell, 1950William Franklin III, 1952Nelson Edman, 1958 Grandchildren19 grandchildren, 44 great-grandchildren and nine great-great-grandchildrenResidenceIn the mountains of western North CarolinaEducationGraduated, Florida Bible Institute (now Trinity College of Florida), 1940Wheaton College, Wheaton, Illinois (B.A.), 1943 BornNovember 7, 1918Charlotte, North CarolinaDiedFebruary 21, 2018ParentsWilliam Franklin Graham Sr. (deceased 1962) and Morrow Coffey Graham (deceased 1981) BornNovember 7, 1918Charlotte, North CarolinaDiedFebruary 21, 2018ParentsWilliam Franklin Graham Sr. (deceased 1962) and Morrow Coffey Graham (deceased 1981) November 7, 1918Charlotte, North Carolina February 21, 2018 William Franklin Graham Sr. (deceased 1962) and Morrow Coffey Graham (deceased 1981) MarriedRuth McCue Bell, 1943 (deceased 2007)ChildrenVirginia, 1945Anne Morrow, 1948Ruth Bell, 1950William Franklin III, 1952Nelson Edman, 1958 MarriedRuth McCue Bell, 1943 (deceased 2007)ChildrenVirginia, 1945Anne Morrow, 1948Ruth Bell, 1950William Franklin III, 1952Nelson Edman, 1958 Ruth McCue Bell, 1943 (deceased 2007) Virginia, 1945Anne Morrow, 1948Ruth Bell, 1950William Franklin III, 1952Nelson Edman, 1958 Grandchildren19 grandchildren, 44 great-grandchildren and nine great-great-grandchildrenResidenceIn the mountains of western North CarolinaEducationGraduated, Florida Bible Institute (now Trinity College of Florida), 1940Wheaton College, Wheaton, Illinois (B.A.), 1943 Grandchildren19 grandchildren, 44 great-grandchildren and nine great-great-grandchildrenResidenceIn the mountains of western North CarolinaEducationGraduated, Florida Bible Institute (now Trinity College of Florida), 1940Wheaton College, Wheaton, Illinois (B.A.), 1943 Grandchildren 19 grandchildren, 44 great-grandchildren and nine great-great-grandchildren In the mountains of western North Carolina Graduated, Florida Bible Institute (now Trinity College of Florida), 1940Wheaton College, Wheaton, Illinois (B.A.), 1943 Vocation 1939: Ordained to the ministry by Peniel Baptist Church, Palatka, Fla. (a church in the Southern Baptist Convention)1941: Pastor, The United Gospel Tabernacle, Wheaton, Illinois1943–45: Pastor, The Village Church of Western Springs (now Western Springs Baptist Church), Western Springs, Ill 1945–50: Charter Vice President, Youth for Christ International, Chicago, Ill.1947–52: President, Northwestern Schools, consisting of three institutions: a liberal arts college, Bible school and theological seminary 1950: Founded Billy Graham Evangelistic Association, Minneapolis, Minn.1950: Began weekly “Hour of Decision” radio program, which was heard around the world for more than 60 years Vocation 1939: Ordained to the ministry by Peniel Baptist Church, Palatka, Fla. (a church in the Southern Baptist Convention)1941: Pastor, The United Gospel Tabernacle, Wheaton, Illinois1943–45: Pastor, The Village Church of Western Springs (now Western Springs Baptist Church), Western Springs, Ill 1945–50: Charter Vice President, Youth for Christ International, Chicago, Ill.1947–52: President, Northwestern Schools, consisting of three institutions: a liberal arts college, Bible school and theological seminary 1950: Founded Billy Graham Evangelistic Association, Minneapolis, Minn.1950: Began weekly “Hour of Decision” radio program, which was heard around the world for more than 60 years Vocation 1939: Ordained to the ministry by Peniel Baptist Church, Palatka, Fla. (a church in the Southern Baptist Convention)1941: Pastor, The United Gospel Tabernacle, Wheaton, Illinois1943–45: Pastor, The Village Church of Western Springs (now Western Springs Baptist Church), Western Springs, Ill 1945–50: Charter Vice President, Youth for Christ International, Chicago, Ill.1947–52: President, Northwestern Schools, consisting of three institutions: a liberal arts college, Bible school and theological seminary 1950: Founded Billy Graham Evangelistic Association, Minneapolis, Minn.1950: Began weekly “Hour of Decision” radio program, which was heard around the world for more than 60 years 1939: Ordained to the ministry by Peniel Baptist Church, Palatka, Fla. (a church in the Southern Baptist Convention)1941: Pastor, The United Gospel Tabernacle, Wheaton, Illinois1943–45: Pastor, The Village Church of Western Springs (now Western Springs Baptist Church), Western Springs, Ill 1945–50: Charter Vice President, Youth for Christ International, Chicago, Ill.1947–52: President, Northwestern Schools, consisting of three institutions: a liberal arts college, Bible school and theological seminary 1950: Founded Billy Graham Evangelistic Association, Minneapolis, Minn.1950: Began weekly “Hour of Decision” radio program, which was heard around the world for more than 60 years 1939: Ordained to the ministry by Peniel Baptist Church, Palatka, Fla. (a church in the Southern Baptist Convention)1941: Pastor, The United Gospel Tabernacle, Wheaton, Illinois1943–45: Pastor, The Village Church of Western Springs (now Western Springs Baptist Church), Western Springs, Ill 1939: Ordained to the ministry by Peniel Baptist Church, Palatka, Fla. (a church in the Southern Baptist Convention)1941: Pastor, The United Gospel Tabernacle, Wheaton, Illinois1943–45: Pastor, The Village Church of Western Springs (now Western Springs Baptist Church), Western Springs, Ill 1939: Ordained to the ministry by Peniel Baptist Church, Palatka, Fla. (a church in the Southern Baptist Convention) 1941: Pastor, The United Gospel Tabernacle, Wheaton, Illinois 1943–45: Pastor, The Village Church of Western Springs (now Western Springs Baptist Church), Western Springs, Ill 1945–50: Charter Vice President, Youth for Christ International, Chicago, Ill.1947–52: President, Northwestern Schools, consisting of three institutions: a liberal arts college, Bible school and theological seminary 1945–50: Charter Vice President, Youth for Christ International, Chicago, Ill.1947–52: President, Northwestern Schools, consisting of three institutions: a liberal arts college, Bible school and theological seminary 1945–50: Charter Vice President, Youth for Christ International, Chicago, Ill. 1947–52: President, Northwestern Schools, consisting of three institutions: a liberal arts college, Bible school and theological seminary 1950: Founded Billy Graham Evangelistic Association, Minneapolis, Minn.1950: Began weekly “Hour of Decision” radio program, which was heard around the world for more than 60 years 1950: Founded Billy Graham Evangelistic Association, Minneapolis, Minn.1950: Began weekly “Hour of Decision” radio program, which was heard around the world for more than 60 years 1950: Founded Billy Graham Evangelistic Association, Minneapolis, Minn. 1950: Began weekly “Hour of Decision” radio program, which was heard around the world for more than 60 years Awards & Honors "Ten Most Admired Men in the World" from the Gallup Poll since 1948—a total of 61 times, including 55 consecutive as of 2017—more than any other individual in the world, placing him at the head of the overall list of those most admired by Americans for the past six decadesClergyman of the Year from the National Pilgrim SocietyDistinguished Service Medal of The Salvation ArmyWho’s Who in America annually since 1954Freedoms Foundation Distinguished Persons Award (numerous years)Gold Medal Award, National Institute of Social Science, New York, 1957Annual Gutenberg Award of the Chicago Bible Society, 1963Gold Award of the George Washington Carver Memorial Institute, 1964, for contribution to race relations, presented by Senator Javits (NY)Speaker of the Year Award, 1964Golden Plate Award, American Academy of Achievement, 1965Horatio Alger Award, 1965National Citizenship Award by the Military Chaplains Association of the U.S.A., 1965Wisdom Award of Honor, 1965Big Brother of the Year Award, at the White House, Washington, D.C., 1966, for contribution to the welfare of children The Torch of Liberty Plaque by the Anti-Defamation League of B’nai B’rith, 1969George Washington Honor Medal from Freedoms Foundation of Valley Forge, Pennsylvania, for his sermon “The Violent Society,” 1969Honored by Morality in Media for “fostering the principles of truth, taste, inspiration and love in media,” 1969International Brotherhood Award from the National Conference of Christians and Jews, 1971Distinguished Service Award from the National Association of Broadcasters, 1972Franciscan International Award, 1972Sylvanus Thayer Award from United States Military Academy Association of Graduates at West Point (The most prestigious award the United States Military Academy gives to a U.S. citizen.), 1972George Washington Medal Award for Patriotism from Freedoms Foundation of Valley Forge, 1974Direct Selling Association’s Salesman of the Decade Award, 1975Philip Award from the Association of United Methodist Evangelists, 1976First National Interreligious Award, American Jewish Committee, 1977Distinguished Communications Medal, Southern Baptist Radio and Television Commission, 1977 Jabotinsky Centennial Medal presented by The Jabotinsky Foundation, 1980Religious Broadcasting Hall of Fame Award, 1981Templeton Foundation Prize for Progress in Religion Award, 1982Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation’s highest civilian award, 1983National Religious Broadcasters Award of Merit, 1986North Carolina Award in Public Service, 1986Good Housekeeping Most Admired Men Poll, 1997, #1 for five years in a row and 16th time in top 10Congressional Gold Medal, highest honor Congress can bestow on a private citizen, 1996Inducted into the Gospel Music Hall of Fame by the Gospel Music Association—the first nonmusician to be inducted, 1999Ronald Reagan Presidential Foundation Freedom Award, for monumental and lasting contributions to the cause of freedom, 2000Honorary Knight Commander of the order of the British Empire (KBE) for his international contribution to civic and religious life over 60 years, 2001Charlotte Broadcast Hall of Fame, inaugural class, 2015Many honorary degrees Awards & Honors "Ten Most Admired Men in the World" from the Gallup Poll since 1948—a total of 61 times, including 55 consecutive as of 2017—more than any other individual in the world, placing him at the head of the overall list of those most admired by Americans for the past six decadesClergyman of the Year from the National Pilgrim SocietyDistinguished Service Medal of The Salvation ArmyWho’s Who in America annually since 1954Freedoms Foundation Distinguished Persons Award (numerous years)Gold Medal Award, National Institute of Social Science, New York, 1957Annual Gutenberg Award of the Chicago Bible Society, 1963Gold Award of the George Washington Carver Memorial Institute, 1964, for contribution to race relations, presented by Senator Javits (NY)Speaker of the Year Award, 1964Golden Plate Award, American Academy of Achievement, 1965Horatio Alger Award, 1965National Citizenship Award by the Military Chaplains Association of the U.S.A., 1965Wisdom Award of Honor, 1965Big Brother of the Year Award, at the White House, Washington, D.C., 1966, for contribution to the welfare of children The Torch of Liberty Plaque by the Anti-Defamation League of B’nai B’rith, 1969George Washington Honor Medal from Freedoms Foundation of Valley Forge, Pennsylvania, for his sermon “The Violent Society,” 1969Honored by Morality in Media for “fostering the principles of truth, taste, inspiration and love in media,” 1969International Brotherhood Award from the National Conference of Christians and Jews, 1971Distinguished Service Award from the National Association of Broadcasters, 1972Franciscan International Award, 1972Sylvanus Thayer Award from United States Military Academy Association of Graduates at West Point (The most prestigious award the United States Military Academy gives to a U.S. citizen.), 1972George Washington Medal Award for Patriotism from Freedoms Foundation of Valley Forge, 1974Direct Selling Association’s Salesman of the Decade Award, 1975Philip Award from the Association of United Methodist Evangelists, 1976First National Interreligious Award, American Jewish Committee, 1977Distinguished Communications Medal, Southern Baptist Radio and Television Commission, 1977 Jabotinsky Centennial Medal presented by The Jabotinsky Foundation, 1980Religious Broadcasting Hall of Fame Award, 1981Templeton Foundation Prize for Progress in Religion Award, 1982Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation’s highest civilian award, 1983National Religious Broadcasters Award of Merit, 1986North Carolina Award in Public Service, 1986Good Housekeeping Most Admired Men Poll, 1997, #1 for five years in a row and 16th time in top 10Congressional Gold Medal, highest honor Congress can bestow on a private citizen, 1996Inducted into the Gospel Music Hall of Fame by the Gospel Music Association—the first nonmusician to be inducted, 1999Ronald Reagan Presidential Foundation Freedom Award, for monumental and lasting contributions to the cause of freedom, 2000Honorary Knight Commander of the order of the British Empire (KBE) for his international contribution to civic and religious life over 60 years, 2001Charlotte Broadcast Hall of Fame, inaugural class, 2015Many honorary degrees Awards & Honors "Ten Most Admired Men in the World" from the Gallup Poll since 1948—a total of 61 times, including 55 consecutive as of 2017—more than any other individual in the world, placing him at the head of the overall list of those most admired by Americans for the past six decadesClergyman of the Year from the National Pilgrim SocietyDistinguished Service Medal of The Salvation ArmyWho’s Who in America annually since 1954Freedoms Foundation Distinguished Persons Award (numerous years)Gold Medal Award, National Institute of Social Science, New York, 1957Annual Gutenberg Award of the Chicago Bible Society, 1963Gold Award of the George Washington Carver Memorial Institute, 1964, for contribution to race relations, presented by Senator Javits (NY)Speaker of the Year Award, 1964Golden Plate Award, American Academy of Achievement, 1965Horatio Alger Award, 1965National Citizenship Award by the Military Chaplains Association of the U.S.A., 1965Wisdom Award of Honor, 1965Big Brother of the Year Award, at the White House, Washington, D.C., 1966, for contribution to the welfare of children The Torch of Liberty Plaque by the Anti-Defamation League of B’nai B’rith, 1969George Washington Honor Medal from Freedoms Foundation of Valley Forge, Pennsylvania, for his sermon “The Violent Society,” 1969Honored by Morality in Media for “fostering the principles of truth, taste, inspiration and love in media,” 1969International Brotherhood Award from the National Conference of Christians and Jews, 1971Distinguished Service Award from the National Association of Broadcasters, 1972Franciscan International Award, 1972Sylvanus Thayer Award from United States Military Academy Association of Graduates at West Point (The most prestigious award the United States Military Academy gives to a U.S. citizen.), 1972George Washington Medal Award for Patriotism from Freedoms Foundation of Valley Forge, 1974Direct Selling Association’s Salesman of the Decade Award, 1975Philip Award from the Association of United Methodist Evangelists, 1976First National Interreligious Award, American Jewish Committee, 1977Distinguished Communications Medal, Southern Baptist Radio and Television Commission, 1977 Jabotinsky Centennial Medal presented by The Jabotinsky Foundation, 1980Religious Broadcasting Hall of Fame Award, 1981Templeton Foundation Prize for Progress in Religion Award, 1982Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation’s highest civilian award, 1983National Religious Broadcasters Award of Merit, 1986North Carolina Award in Public Service, 1986Good Housekeeping Most Admired Men Poll, 1997, #1 for five years in a row and 16th time in top 10Congressional Gold Medal, highest honor Congress can bestow on a private citizen, 1996Inducted into the Gospel Music Hall of Fame by the Gospel Music Association—the first nonmusician to be inducted, 1999Ronald Reagan Presidential Foundation Freedom Award, for monumental and lasting contributions to the cause of freedom, 2000Honorary Knight Commander of the order of the British Empire (KBE) for his international contribution to civic and religious life over 60 years, 2001Charlotte Broadcast Hall of Fame, inaugural class, 2015Many honorary degrees Awards & Honors "Ten Most Admired Men in the World" from the Gallup Poll since 1948—a total of 61 times, including 55 consecutive as of 2017—more than any other individual in the world, placing him at the head of the overall list of those most admired by Americans for the past six decadesClergyman of the Year from the National Pilgrim SocietyDistinguished Service Medal of The Salvation ArmyWho’s Who in America annually since 1954Freedoms Foundation Distinguished Persons Award (numerous years)Gold Medal Award, National Institute of Social Science, New York, 1957Annual Gutenberg Award of the Chicago Bible Society, 1963Gold Award of the George Washington Carver Memorial Institute, 1964, for contribution to race relations, presented by Senator Javits (NY)Speaker of the Year Award, 1964Golden Plate Award, American Academy of Achievement, 1965Horatio Alger Award, 1965National Citizenship Award by the Military Chaplains Association of the U.S.A., 1965Wisdom Award of Honor, 1965Big Brother of the Year Award, at the White House, Washington, D.C., 1966, for contribution to the welfare of children The Torch of Liberty Plaque by the Anti-Defamation League of B’nai B’rith, 1969George Washington Honor Medal from Freedoms Foundation of Valley Forge, Pennsylvania, for his sermon “The Violent Society,” 1969Honored by Morality in Media for “fostering the principles of truth, taste, inspiration and love in media,” 1969International Brotherhood Award from the National Conference of Christians and Jews, 1971Distinguished Service Award from the National Association of Broadcasters, 1972Franciscan International Award, 1972Sylvanus Thayer Award from United States Military Academy Association of Graduates at West Point (The most prestigious award the United States Military Academy gives to a U.S. citizen.), 1972George Washington Medal Award for Patriotism from Freedoms Foundation of Valley Forge, 1974Direct Selling Association’s Salesman of the Decade Award, 1975Philip Award from the Association of United Methodist Evangelists, 1976First National Interreligious Award, American Jewish Committee, 1977Distinguished Communications Medal, Southern Baptist Radio and Television Commission, 1977 Jabotinsky Centennial Medal presented by The Jabotinsky Foundation, 1980Religious Broadcasting Hall of Fame Award, 1981Templeton Foundation Prize for Progress in Religion Award, 1982Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation’s highest civilian award, 1983National Religious Broadcasters Award of Merit, 1986North Carolina Award in Public Service, 1986Good Housekeeping Most Admired Men Poll, 1997, #1 for five years in a row and 16th time in top 10Congressional Gold Medal, highest honor Congress can bestow on a private citizen, 1996Inducted into the Gospel Music Hall of Fame by the Gospel Music Association—the first nonmusician to be inducted, 1999Ronald Reagan Presidential Foundation Freedom Award, for monumental and lasting contributions to the cause of freedom, 2000Honorary Knight Commander of the order of the British Empire (KBE) for his international contribution to civic and religious life over 60 years, 2001Charlotte Broadcast Hall of Fame, inaugural class, 2015Many honorary degrees "Ten Most Admired Men in the World" from the Gallup Poll since 1948—a total of 61 times, including 55 consecutive as of 2017—more than any other individual in the world, placing him at the head of the overall list of those most admired by Americans for the past six decadesClergyman of the Year from the National Pilgrim SocietyDistinguished Service Medal of The Salvation ArmyWho’s Who in America annually since 1954Freedoms Foundation Distinguished Persons Award (numerous years)Gold Medal Award, National Institute of Social Science, New York, 1957Annual Gutenberg Award of the Chicago Bible Society, 1963Gold Award of the George Washington Carver Memorial Institute, 1964, for contribution to race relations, presented by Senator Javits (NY)Speaker of the Year Award, 1964Golden Plate Award, American Academy of Achievement, 1965Horatio Alger Award, 1965National Citizenship Award by the Military Chaplains Association of the U.S.A., 1965Wisdom Award of Honor, 1965Big Brother of the Year Award, at the White House, Washington, D.C., 1966, for contribution to the welfare of children "Ten Most Admired Men in the World" from the Gallup Poll since 1948—a total of 61 times, including 55 consecutive as of 2017—more than any other individual in the world, placing him at the head of the overall list of those most admired by Americans for the past six decadesClergyman of the Year from the National Pilgrim SocietyDistinguished Service Medal of The Salvation ArmyWho’s Who in America annually since 1954Freedoms Foundation Distinguished Persons Award (numerous years)Gold Medal Award, National Institute of Social Science, New York, 1957Annual Gutenberg Award of the Chicago Bible Society, 1963Gold Award of the George Washington Carver Memorial Institute, 1964, for contribution to race relations, presented by Senator Javits (NY)Speaker of the Year Award, 1964Golden Plate Award, American Academy of Achievement, 1965Horatio Alger Award, 1965National Citizenship Award by the Military Chaplains Association of the U.S.A., 1965Wisdom Award of Honor, 1965Big Brother of the Year Award, at the White House, Washington, D.C., 1966, for contribution to the welfare of children "Ten Most Admired Men in the World" from the Gallup Poll since 1948—a total of 61 times, including 55 consecutive as of 2017—more than any other individual in the world, placing him at the head of the overall list of those most admired by Americans for the past six decades Clergyman of the Year from the National Pilgrim Society Distinguished Service Medal of The Salvation Army Who’s Who in America annually since 1954 Freedoms Foundation Distinguished Persons Award (numerous years) Gold Medal Award, National Institute of Social Science, New York, 1957 Annual Gutenberg Award of the Chicago Bible Society, 1963 Gold Award of the George Washington Carver Memorial Institute, 1964, for contribution to race relations, presented by Senator Javits (NY) Speaker of the Year Award, 1964 Golden Plate Award, American Academy of Achievement, 1965 Horatio Alger Award, 1965 National Citizenship Award by the Military Chaplains Association of the U.S.A., 1965 Wisdom Award of Honor, 1965 Big Brother of the Year Award, at the White House, Washington, D.C., 1966, for contribution to the welfare of children The Torch of Liberty Plaque by the Anti-Defamation League of B’nai B’rith, 1969George Washington Honor Medal from Freedoms Foundation of Valley Forge, Pennsylvania, for his sermon “The Violent Society,” 1969Honored by Morality in Media for “fostering the principles of truth, taste, inspiration and love in media,” 1969International Brotherhood Award from the National Conference of Christians and Jews, 1971Distinguished Service Award from the National Association of Broadcasters, 1972Franciscan International Award, 1972Sylvanus Thayer Award from United States Military Academy Association of Graduates at West Point (The most prestigious award the United States Military Academy gives to a U.S. citizen.), 1972George Washington Medal Award for Patriotism from Freedoms Foundation of Valley Forge, 1974Direct Selling Association’s Salesman of the Decade Award, 1975Philip Award from the Association of United Methodist Evangelists, 1976First National Interreligious Award, American Jewish Committee, 1977Distinguished Communications Medal, Southern Baptist Radio and Television Commission, 1977 The Torch of Liberty Plaque by the Anti-Defamation League of B’nai B’rith, 1969George Washington Honor Medal from Freedoms Foundation of Valley Forge, Pennsylvania, for his sermon “The Violent Society,” 1969Honored by Morality in Media for “fostering the principles of truth, taste, inspiration and love in media,” 1969International Brotherhood Award from the National Conference of Christians and Jews, 1971Distinguished Service Award from the National Association of Broadcasters, 1972Franciscan International Award, 1972Sylvanus Thayer Award from United States Military Academy Association of Graduates at West Point (The most prestigious award the United States Military Academy gives to a U.S. citizen.), 1972George Washington Medal Award for Patriotism from Freedoms Foundation of Valley Forge, 1974Direct Selling Association’s Salesman of the Decade Award, 1975Philip Award from the Association of United Methodist Evangelists, 1976First National Interreligious Award, American Jewish Committee, 1977Distinguished Communications Medal, Southern Baptist Radio and Television Commission, 1977 The Torch of Liberty Plaque by the Anti-Defamation League of B’nai B’rith, 1969 George Washington Honor Medal from Freedoms Foundation of Valley Forge, Pennsylvania, for his sermon “The Violent Society,” 1969 Honored by Morality in Media for “fostering the principles of truth, taste, inspiration and love in media,” 1969 International Brotherhood Award from the National Conference of Christians and Jews, 1971 Distinguished Service Award from the National Association of Broadcasters, 1972 Franciscan International Award, 1972 Sylvanus Thayer Award from United States Military Academy Association of Graduates at West Point (The most prestigious award the United States Military Academy gives to a U.S. citizen.), 1972 George Washington Medal Award for Patriotism from Freedoms Foundation of Valley Forge, 1974 Direct Selling Association’s Salesman of the Decade Award, 1975 Philip Award from the Association of United Methodist Evangelists, 1976 First National Interreligious Award, American Jewish Committee, 1977 Distinguished Communications Medal, Southern Baptist Radio and Television Commission, 1977 Jabotinsky Centennial Medal presented by The Jabotinsky Foundation, 1980Religious Broadcasting Hall of Fame Award, 1981Templeton Foundation Prize for Progress in Religion Award, 1982Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation’s highest civilian award, 1983National Religious Broadcasters Award of Merit, 1986North Carolina Award in Public Service, 1986Good Housekeeping Most Admired Men Poll, 1997, #1 for five years in a row and 16th time in top 10Congressional Gold Medal, highest honor Congress can bestow on a private citizen, 1996Inducted into the Gospel Music Hall of Fame by the Gospel Music Association—the first nonmusician to be inducted, 1999Ronald Reagan Presidential Foundation Freedom Award, for monumental and lasting contributions to the cause of freedom, 2000Honorary Knight Commander of the order of the British Empire (KBE) for his international contribution to civic and religious life over 60 years, 2001Charlotte Broadcast Hall of Fame, inaugural class, 2015Many honorary degrees Jabotinsky Centennial Medal presented by The Jabotinsky Foundation, 1980Religious Broadcasting Hall of Fame Award, 1981Templeton Foundation Prize for Progress in Religion Award, 1982Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation’s highest civilian award, 1983National Religious Broadcasters Award of Merit, 1986North Carolina Award in Public Service, 1986Good Housekeeping Most Admired Men Poll, 1997, #1 for five years in a row and 16th time in top 10Congressional Gold Medal, highest honor Congress can bestow on a private citizen, 1996Inducted into the Gospel Music Hall of Fame by the Gospel Music Association—the first nonmusician to be inducted, 1999Ronald Reagan Presidential Foundation Freedom Award, for monumental and lasting contributions to the cause of freedom, 2000Honorary Knight Commander of the order of the British Empire (KBE) for his international contribution to civic and religious life over 60 years, 2001Charlotte Broadcast Hall of Fame, inaugural class, 2015Many honorary degrees Jabotinsky Centennial Medal presented by The Jabotinsky Foundation, 1980 Religious Broadcasting Hall of Fame Award, 1981 Templeton Foundation Prize for Progress in Religion Award, 1982 Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation’s highest civilian award, 1983 National Religious Broadcasters Award of Merit, 1986 North Carolina Award in Public Service, 1986 Good Housekeeping Most Admired Men Poll, 1997, #1 for five years in a row and 16th time in top 10 Congressional Gold Medal, highest honor Congress can bestow on a private citizen, 1996 Inducted into the Gospel Music Hall of Fame by the Gospel Music Association—the first nonmusician to be inducted, 1999 Ronald Reagan Presidential Foundation Freedom Award, for monumental and lasting contributions to the cause of freedom, 2000 Honorary Knight Commander of the order of the British Empire (KBE) for his international contribution to civic and religious life over 60 years, 2001 Charlotte Broadcast Hall of Fame, inaugural class, 2015 Many honorary degrees On May 16, 2024, a bronze statue of Billy Graham was unveiled at the U.S. Capitol and installed as part of the National Statuary Hall Collection, pointing future generations to the Gospel that he preached for decades. The seven-foot sculpture features Billy Graham holding an open Bible atop a pedestal engraved with two Bible verses: John 3:16 and John 14:6. It stands in the Crypt where every public tour of the Capitol begins. On May 16, 2024, a bronze statue of Billy Graham was unveiled at the U.S. Capitol and installed as part of the National Statuary Hall Collection, pointing future generations to the Gospel that he preached for decades. The seven-foot sculpture features Billy Graham holding an open Bible atop a pedestal engraved with two Bible verses: John 3:16 and John 14:6. It stands in the Crypt where every public tour of the Capitol begins. On May 16, 2024, a bronze statue of Billy Graham was unveiled at the U.S. Capitol and installed as part of the National Statuary Hall Collection, pointing future generations to the Gospel that he preached for decades. The seven-foot sculpture features Billy Graham holding an open Bible atop a pedestal engraved with two Bible verses: John 3:16 and John 14:6. It stands in the Crypt where every public tour of the Capitol begins. On May 16, 2024, a bronze statue of Billy Graham was unveiled at the U.S. Capitol and installed as part of the National Statuary Hall Collection, pointing future generations to the Gospel that he preached for decades. The seven-foot sculpture features Billy Graham holding an open Bible atop a pedestal engraved with two Bible verses: John 3:16 and John 14:6. It stands in the Crypt where every public tour of the Capitol begins. On May 16, 2024, a bronze statue of Billy Graham was unveiled at the U.S. Capitol and installed as part of the National Statuary Hall Collection, pointing future generations to the Gospel that he preached for decades. The seven-foot sculpture features Billy Graham holding an open Bible atop a pedestal engraved with two Bible verses: John 3:16 and John 14:6. It stands in the Crypt where every public tour of the Capitol begins. Published 1947: Calling Youth to Christ1952: Author of syndicated newspaper column My Answer carried by newspapers across the country with a combined circulation of 5 million readers1953: I Saw Your Sons at War: The Korean Diary of Billy Graham1953: Peace With God: How to Choose in the Hour of Decision—over 2 million copies sold in 38 languages, revised and expanded in 19841955: Freedom From the Seven Deadly Sins1955: The Secret of Happiness1958: Billy Graham Talks to Teen-Agers1960: My Answer1960: Billy Graham Answers Your Questions1965: World Aflame—The New York Times and Time magazine bestseller lists for several weeks1969: The Challenge: Sermons from the historic New York Crusade 1971: The Jesus Generation1975: Angels: God’s Secret Agents—Publishers Weekly and The New York Times bestseller lists (21 weeks each), Evangelical Christian Publishers Association (ECPA) Platinum Book Award1977: How to Be Born Again1978: The Holy Spirit: Activating God's Power in Your Life—ECPA Gold Book Award1981: Till Armageddon: A Perspective on Suffering—ECPA Platinum Book Award1983: Approaching Hoofbeats: The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse—The New York Times bestseller list, ECPA Gold Book Award1984: A Biblical Standard For Evangelists: A commentary on the fifteen Affirmations made by participants at the International Conference for Itinerant Evangelists in Amsterdam, The Netherlands—July 1983.1986: Unto the Hills1987: Facing Death and the Life After—Christian Booksellers Association bestseller list (21 weeks) 1988: Answers to Life’s Problems: Guidance, Inspiration and Hope for the Challenges of Today1991: Hope for the Troubled Heart: Finding God in the Midst of Pain1992: Storm Warning: Whether Global Recession, Terrorist Threats, or Devastating Natural Disasters, These Ominous Shadows Must Bring Us Back to the Gospel1997: Just As I Am2002: Hope for Each Day2003: The Key to Personal Peace2005: Living in God’s Love: The New York Crusade2006: The Journey: Living by Faith in an Uncertain World2008: Wisdom for Each Day2010: Storm Warning: Whether Global Recession, Terrorist Threats, or Devastating Natural Disasters, These Ominous Shadows Must Bring Us Back to the Gospel (International Edition)2011: Nearing Home: Life, Faith, and Finishing Well2012: The Heaven Answer Book2013: The Reason for My Hope: Salvation2015: Where I Am: Heaven, Eternity, and Our Life Beyond Published 1947: Calling Youth to Christ1952: Author of syndicated newspaper column My Answer carried by newspapers across the country with a combined circulation of 5 million readers1953: I Saw Your Sons at War: The Korean Diary of Billy Graham1953: Peace With God: How to Choose in the Hour of Decision—over 2 million copies sold in 38 languages, revised and expanded in 19841955: Freedom From the Seven Deadly Sins1955: The Secret of Happiness1958: Billy Graham Talks to Teen-Agers1960: My Answer1960: Billy Graham Answers Your Questions1965: World Aflame—The New York Times and Time magazine bestseller lists for several weeks1969: The Challenge: Sermons from the historic New York Crusade 1971: The Jesus Generation1975: Angels: God’s Secret Agents—Publishers Weekly and The New York Times bestseller lists (21 weeks each), Evangelical Christian Publishers Association (ECPA) Platinum Book Award1977: How to Be Born Again1978: The Holy Spirit: Activating God's Power in Your Life—ECPA Gold Book Award1981: Till Armageddon: A Perspective on Suffering—ECPA Platinum Book Award1983: Approaching Hoofbeats: The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse—The New York Times bestseller list, ECPA Gold Book Award1984: A Biblical Standard For Evangelists: A commentary on the fifteen Affirmations made by participants at the International Conference for Itinerant Evangelists in Amsterdam, The Netherlands—July 1983.1986: Unto the Hills1987: Facing Death and the Life After—Christian Booksellers Association bestseller list (21 weeks) 1988: Answers to Life’s Problems: Guidance, Inspiration and Hope for the Challenges of Today1991: Hope for the Troubled Heart: Finding God in the Midst of Pain1992: Storm Warning: Whether Global Recession, Terrorist Threats, or Devastating Natural Disasters, These Ominous Shadows Must Bring Us Back to the Gospel1997: Just As I Am2002: Hope for Each Day2003: The Key to Personal Peace2005: Living in God’s Love: The New York Crusade2006: The Journey: Living by Faith in an Uncertain World2008: Wisdom for Each Day2010: Storm Warning: Whether Global Recession, Terrorist Threats, or Devastating Natural Disasters, These Ominous Shadows Must Bring Us Back to the Gospel (International Edition)2011: Nearing Home: Life, Faith, and Finishing Well2012: The Heaven Answer Book2013: The Reason for My Hope: Salvation2015: Where I Am: Heaven, Eternity, and Our Life Beyond Published 1947: Calling Youth to Christ1952: Author of syndicated newspaper column My Answer carried by newspapers across the country with a combined circulation of 5 million readers1953: I Saw Your Sons at War: The Korean Diary of Billy Graham1953: Peace With God: How to Choose in the Hour of Decision—over 2 million copies sold in 38 languages, revised and expanded in 19841955: Freedom From the Seven Deadly Sins1955: The Secret of Happiness1958: Billy Graham Talks to Teen-Agers1960: My Answer1960: Billy Graham Answers Your Questions1965: World Aflame—The New York Times and Time magazine bestseller lists for several weeks1969: The Challenge: Sermons from the historic New York Crusade 1971: The Jesus Generation1975: Angels: God’s Secret Agents—Publishers Weekly and The New York Times bestseller lists (21 weeks each), Evangelical Christian Publishers Association (ECPA) Platinum Book Award1977: How to Be Born Again1978: The Holy Spirit: Activating God's Power in Your Life—ECPA Gold Book Award1981: Till Armageddon: A Perspective on Suffering—ECPA Platinum Book Award1983: Approaching Hoofbeats: The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse—The New York Times bestseller list, ECPA Gold Book Award1984: A Biblical Standard For Evangelists: A commentary on the fifteen Affirmations made by participants at the International Conference for Itinerant Evangelists in Amsterdam, The Netherlands—July 1983.1986: Unto the Hills1987: Facing Death and the Life After—Christian Booksellers Association bestseller list (21 weeks) 1988: Answers to Life’s Problems: Guidance, Inspiration and Hope for the Challenges of Today1991: Hope for the Troubled Heart: Finding God in the Midst of Pain1992: Storm Warning: Whether Global Recession, Terrorist Threats, or Devastating Natural Disasters, These Ominous Shadows Must Bring Us Back to the Gospel1997: Just As I Am2002: Hope for Each Day2003: The Key to Personal Peace2005: Living in God’s Love: The New York Crusade2006: The Journey: Living by Faith in an Uncertain World2008: Wisdom for Each Day2010: Storm Warning: Whether Global Recession, Terrorist Threats, or Devastating Natural Disasters, These Ominous Shadows Must Bring Us Back to the Gospel (International Edition)2011: Nearing Home: Life, Faith, and Finishing Well2012: The Heaven Answer Book2013: The Reason for My Hope: Salvation2015: Where I Am: Heaven, Eternity, and Our Life Beyond 1947: Calling Youth to Christ1952: Author of syndicated newspaper column My Answer carried by newspapers across the country with a combined circulation of 5 million readers1953: I Saw Your Sons at War: The Korean Diary of Billy Graham1953: Peace With God: How to Choose in the Hour of Decision—over 2 million copies sold in 38 languages, revised and expanded in 19841955: Freedom From the Seven Deadly Sins1955: The Secret of Happiness1958: Billy Graham Talks to Teen-Agers1960: My Answer1960: Billy Graham Answers Your Questions1965: World Aflame—The New York Times and Time magazine bestseller lists for several weeks1969: The Challenge: Sermons from the historic New York Crusade 1971: The Jesus Generation1975: Angels: God’s Secret Agents—Publishers Weekly and The New York Times bestseller lists (21 weeks each), Evangelical Christian Publishers Association (ECPA) Platinum Book Award1977: How to Be Born Again1978: The Holy Spirit: Activating God's Power in Your Life—ECPA Gold Book Award1981: Till Armageddon: A Perspective on Suffering—ECPA Platinum Book Award1983: Approaching Hoofbeats: The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse—The New York Times bestseller list, ECPA Gold Book Award1984: A Biblical Standard For Evangelists: A commentary on the fifteen Affirmations made by participants at the International Conference for Itinerant Evangelists in Amsterdam, The Netherlands—July 1983.1986: Unto the Hills1987: Facing Death and the Life After—Christian Booksellers Association bestseller list (21 weeks) 1988: Answers to Life’s Problems: Guidance, Inspiration and Hope for the Challenges of Today1991: Hope for the Troubled Heart: Finding God in the Midst of Pain1992: Storm Warning: Whether Global Recession, Terrorist Threats, or Devastating Natural Disasters, These Ominous Shadows Must Bring Us Back to the Gospel1997: Just As I Am2002: Hope for Each Day2003: The Key to Personal Peace2005: Living in God’s Love: The New York Crusade2006: The Journey: Living by Faith in an Uncertain World2008: Wisdom for Each Day2010: Storm Warning: Whether Global Recession, Terrorist Threats, or Devastating Natural Disasters, These Ominous Shadows Must Bring Us Back to the Gospel (International Edition)2011: Nearing Home: Life, Faith, and Finishing Well2012: The Heaven Answer Book2013: The Reason for My Hope: Salvation2015: Where I Am: Heaven, Eternity, and Our Life Beyond 1947: Calling Youth to Christ1952: Author of syndicated newspaper column My Answer carried by newspapers across the country with a combined circulation of 5 million readers1953: I Saw Your Sons at War: The Korean Diary of Billy Graham1953: Peace With God: How to Choose in the Hour of Decision—over 2 million copies sold in 38 languages, revised and expanded in 19841955: Freedom From the Seven Deadly Sins1955: The Secret of Happiness1958: Billy Graham Talks to Teen-Agers1960: My Answer1960: Billy Graham Answers Your Questions1965: World Aflame—The New York Times and Time magazine bestseller lists for several weeks1969: The Challenge: Sermons from the historic New York Crusade 1947: Calling Youth to Christ1952: Author of syndicated newspaper column My Answer carried by newspapers across the country with a combined circulation of 5 million readers1953: I Saw Your Sons at War: The Korean Diary of Billy Graham1953: Peace With God: How to Choose in the Hour of Decision—over 2 million copies sold in 38 languages, revised and expanded in 19841955: Freedom From the Seven Deadly Sins1955: The Secret of Happiness1958: Billy Graham Talks to Teen-Agers1960: My Answer1960: Billy Graham Answers Your Questions1965: World Aflame—The New York Times and Time magazine bestseller lists for several weeks1969: The Challenge: Sermons from the historic New York Crusade 1947: Calling Youth to Christ 1952: Author of syndicated newspaper column My Answer carried by newspapers across the country with a combined circulation of 5 million readers 1953: I Saw Your Sons at War: The Korean Diary of Billy Graham 1953: Peace With God: How to Choose in the Hour of Decision—over 2 million copies sold in 38 languages, revised and expanded in 1984 1955: Freedom From the Seven Deadly Sins 1955: The Secret of Happiness 1958: Billy Graham Talks to Teen-Agers 1960: My Answer 1960: Billy Graham Answers Your Questions 1965: World Aflame—The New York Times and Time magazine bestseller lists for several weeks 1969: The Challenge: Sermons from the historic New York Crusade 1971: The Jesus Generation1975: Angels: God’s Secret Agents—Publishers Weekly and The New York Times bestseller lists (21 weeks each), Evangelical Christian Publishers Association (ECPA) Platinum Book Award1977: How to Be Born Again1978: The Holy Spirit: Activating God's Power in Your Life—ECPA Gold Book Award1981: Till Armageddon: A Perspective on Suffering—ECPA Platinum Book Award1983: Approaching Hoofbeats: The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse—The New York Times bestseller list, ECPA Gold Book Award1984: A Biblical Standard For Evangelists: A commentary on the fifteen Affirmations made by participants at the International Conference for Itinerant Evangelists in Amsterdam, The Netherlands—July 1983.1986: Unto the Hills1987: Facing Death and the Life After—Christian Booksellers Association bestseller list (21 weeks) 1971: The Jesus Generation1975: Angels: God’s Secret Agents—Publishers Weekly and The New York Times bestseller lists (21 weeks each), Evangelical Christian Publishers Association (ECPA) Platinum Book Award1977: How to Be Born Again1978: The Holy Spirit: Activating God's Power in Your Life—ECPA Gold Book Award1981: Till Armageddon: A Perspective on Suffering—ECPA Platinum Book Award1983: Approaching Hoofbeats: The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse—The New York Times bestseller list, ECPA Gold Book Award1984: A Biblical Standard For Evangelists: A commentary on the fifteen Affirmations made by participants at the International Conference for Itinerant Evangelists in Amsterdam, The Netherlands—July 1983.1986: Unto the Hills1987: Facing Death and the Life After—Christian Booksellers Association bestseller list (21 weeks) 1971: The Jesus Generation 1975: Angels: God’s Secret Agents—Publishers Weekly and The New York Times bestseller lists (21 weeks each), Evangelical Christian Publishers Association (ECPA) Platinum Book Award 1977: How to Be Born Again 1978: The Holy Spirit: Activating God's Power in Your Life—ECPA Gold Book Award 1981: Till Armageddon: A Perspective on Suffering—ECPA Platinum Book Award 1983: Approaching Hoofbeats: The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse—The New York Times bestseller list, ECPA Gold Book Award 1984: A Biblical Standard For Evangelists: A commentary on the fifteen Affirmations made by participants at the International Conference for Itinerant Evangelists in Amsterdam, The Netherlands—July 1983. 1986: Unto the Hills 1987: Facing Death and the Life After—Christian Booksellers Association bestseller list (21 weeks) 1988: Answers to Life’s Problems: Guidance, Inspiration and Hope for the Challenges of Today1991: Hope for the Troubled Heart: Finding God in the Midst of Pain1992: Storm Warning: Whether Global Recession, Terrorist Threats, or Devastating Natural Disasters, These Ominous Shadows Must Bring Us Back to the Gospel1997: Just As I Am2002: Hope for Each Day2003: The Key to Personal Peace2005: Living in God’s Love: The New York Crusade2006: The Journey: Living by Faith in an Uncertain World2008: Wisdom for Each Day2010: Storm Warning: Whether Global Recession, Terrorist Threats, or Devastating Natural Disasters, These Ominous Shadows Must Bring Us Back to the Gospel (International Edition)2011: Nearing Home: Life, Faith, and Finishing Well2012: The Heaven Answer Book2013: The Reason for My Hope: Salvation2015: Where I Am: Heaven, Eternity, and Our Life Beyond 1988: Answers to Life’s Problems: Guidance, Inspiration and Hope for the Challenges of Today1991: Hope for the Troubled Heart: Finding God in the Midst of Pain1992: Storm Warning: Whether Global Recession, Terrorist Threats, or Devastating Natural Disasters, These Ominous Shadows Must Bring Us Back to the Gospel1997: Just As I Am2002: Hope for Each Day2003: The Key to Personal Peace2005: Living in God’s Love: The New York Crusade2006: The Journey: Living by Faith in an Uncertain World2008: Wisdom for Each Day2010: Storm Warning: Whether Global Recession, Terrorist Threats, or Devastating Natural Disasters, These Ominous Shadows Must Bring Us Back to the Gospel (International Edition)2011: Nearing Home: Life, Faith, and Finishing Well2012: The Heaven Answer Book2013: The Reason for My Hope: Salvation2015: Where I Am: Heaven, Eternity, and Our Life Beyond 1988: Answers to Life’s Problems: Guidance, Inspiration and Hope for the Challenges of Today 1991: Hope for the Troubled Heart: Finding God in the Midst of Pain 1992: Storm Warning: Whether Global Recession, Terrorist Threats, or Devastating Natural Disasters, These Ominous Shadows Must Bring Us Back to the Gospel 1997: Just As I Am 2002: Hope for Each Day 2003: The Key to Personal Peace 2005: Living in God’s Love: The New York Crusade 2006: The Journey: Living by Faith in an Uncertain World 2008: Wisdom for Each Day 2010: Storm Warning: Whether Global Recession, Terrorist Threats, or Devastating Natural Disasters, These Ominous Shadows Must Bring Us Back to the Gospel (International Edition) 2011: Nearing Home: Life, Faith, and Finishing Well 2012: The Heaven Answer Book 2013: The Reason for My Hope: Salvation 2015: Where I Am: Heaven, Eternity, and Our Life Beyond