Source: https://archive.org/stream/in.ernet.dli.2015.214470/2015.214470.The-Story_djvu.txt
Title: Full text of "The Story Of The Metropolitan Opera 1883-1950"
Words: 168539

================================================================================

Full text of "The Story Of The Metropolitan Opera 1883-1950" See other formats THE STORY OF THE Metropolitan Opera THE STORY OF THE . * Metropolitan Opera 1883-1950 A CANDID HISTORY Irving Kolodin 1953 ALFRED A. KNOPF NEW YORK L. C. catalog card number: 52-12212 W THIS IS A BORZOI BOOK, ^ PUBLISHED BY ALFRED A. KNOPF, INC. Copyright 1936, 1953 by Irving Kolodin. All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced in any form without permission in writing from the publisher, except by a reviewer who may quote brief passages and reproduce not more than three illustrations in a review to be printed in a magazine or newspaper. Published simultaneously in Canada by McClelland & Stewart Limited. Manu- factured in the United States of America. FIRST EDITION TO Irma My Wife j )) vii (( PREFATORY NOTE a ll I have to say on the subject of the Metropolitan Opera is included in the pages that follow. I have learned so much about the subject from so many different people that those whom I feel inclined to thank would range from many of the artists who have recently appeared on its stage to a formidable roster of per- sons who have come and gone in New York’s musical life, as well as numerous others still a part of it. Obviously that would be im- possible. I do feel inclined, however, to give specific thanks to several people whose assistance has made the volume and its contents something different from what they would be otherwise. Fred- erick R. Kepple, while comptroller, gave me much valuable finan- cial data, supplemented recently by Henry Fischer. Mrs. John De Witt Peltz, of the Metropolitan Opera Guild, gave unstinted assistance in the compiling of pictures by making the Guild’s files available to me, as did Margaret Carson those of the Metropoli- tan itself. To the late Keats Speed, Executive Editor of The Sun, I am especially indebted not only for the place of vantage with which that paper provided me for nearly twenty years, but also for al- lowing me custody of The Sun’s music files when it ceased pub- lication. The long vista of Metropolitan history reported by the late W. J. Henderson (beginning in 1885 for The New York Times and extending until 1936 for The Sun ) provided a fund of source material that must surely add to the reader’s visualiza- tion of long-gone artists and works, as it did to mine. My final word must be for the critical judgment and unvary- viii Prefatory Note ingly sound advice of Herbert Weinstock, whose understanding of the subject fulfilled an author’s dream of what an editor should be. January i, 1953 IRVING KOLODIN )) * (( CONTENTS I. Patrons and Purposes page i II. House and Home 49 III. Operas and Artists 87 1. The Metropolitan Opera and Real Estate Company 89 The Henry Abbey Opera Company, 1 883-4 89 Opera in German, 1884-91 94 The De Reszkes and the “Golden Age of Song” 116 The Abbey-Schoeffel-Grau Opera Company, 1891-7 117 The Maurice Grau Opera Company, 1897-1903 144 The Conried Metropolitan Opera Company, 1903-8 180 2. The Metropolitan Opera Company 228 The Years of Toscanini, 1908-15 228 The F irst W ar Seasons, 191 5—2 1 300 The Post-Caruso Seasons, 1921-32 350 3. The Metropolitan Opera Association 431 Depression and Deficit, 1932-5 431 The Johnson Period, 1935-50 456 Epilogue 582 Postlude: Bing and Beyond 586 Compilation of Works Presented, 1883-1951 597 Index follows page 607 x )) a (( ILLUSTRATIONS [The illustrations will he found after pages 170 and 394] [following page 170] I. The Metropolitan Opera House: Exterior a) From the southeast, February 191 3 (culver service) b) From the northeast, today (sedge le blang) II. The Metropolitan Opera House: Interior a) Geraldine Farrar’s debut as Juliette, November 26, 1906 b) On opening night, November 11, 1946 III. Der Ring des Nibelungen—l a) Lilli Lehmann as Briinnhilde (the metropolitan opera guild) b) Lillian Nordica as Briinnhilde c) Margarete Matzenauer as Briinnhilde (culver service) d) Ernestine Schumann-Heink as Waltraute (the metropolitan opera guild) IV. Der Ring des Nibelungen—II a) Max Alvary as Siegfried (the metropolitan opera guild) b) Set Svanholm as Siegfried c) Friedrich Schorr as Wotan (the NEW YORK TIMES) d) Ernst Van Dyck as Siegmund (culver service) e) Anton Van Rooy as Wotan (the METROPOLITAN OPERA GUILD) Illustrations xii V. Tristan und Isolde a) Lillian Nordica as Isolde (the metropolitan opera guild) b) Olive Fremstad as Isolde c) Helen Traubel as Isolde d) Albert Niemann as Tristan (the metropolitan opera guild) e) Jean de Reszke as Tristan (the metropolitan opera guild) f) Kirsten Flagstad and Lauritz Melchior as Isolde and Tristan VI. Wagner a) Italo Campanini as Lohengrin (the metropolitan opera guild) b) Leo Slezak as Walfher von Stoltzing in Die Meistersinger (the metropolitan opera guild) c) Emil Fischer as Hans Sachs in Die Meistersinger (the metropolitan opera guild) d) Johanna Gadski as Elisabeth in T annhduser (the metropolitan opera guild) e) Elisabeth Rethberg as Elisabeth in T annhduser f) Karin Branzell as Brangane in Tristan und Isolde g) Clarence Whitehill as Amfortas in Parsifal h) Margarete Matzenauer as Kundry in Parsifal (culver service) VII. Der Rosenkavalier a) Frieda Hempel as the Marschallin (culver service) b) Florence Easton as the Marschallin c) Maria Olszewska as Octavian (SETZER, VIENNA) d) Emanuel List as Baron Ochs e) Rise Stevens as Octavian, Lotte Lehmann as the Marschallin, taking a curtain call Illustrations xiii VIII. Salome and Elektra a) Olive Fremstad as Salome (brown brothers) b) Ljuba Welitch as Salome (LOUIS MENANgON) c) Rend Maison as Herod d) Rose Pauly as Elektra (ellinger, salzburg) e) Astrid Varnay as Elektra IX. Don Giovanni a) Victor Maurel as Don Giovanni (the METROPOLITAN OPERA GUILD) b) Maurice Renaud as Don Giovanni c) Antonio Scotti as Don Giovanni (brown brothers) d) Ezio Pinza as Don Giovanni e) Tito Schipa as Ottavio (MAURICE SEYMOUR) f) Editha Fleischer as Zerlina X. Characterizations a) Lily Pons as Rosina in II Barbiere di Siviglia b) Giuseppe de Luca as Figaro in II Barbiere di Siviglia (the metropolitan opera guild) c) Michael Bohnen as Caspar in Der Freischiitz (carlo edwards) d) Salvatore Baccaloni as Dr. Dulcamara in L’Elisir d’Amore XI. Aida a) Emma Eames as Aida (the metropolitan opera guild) b) Emmy Destinn as Aida c) Zinka Milanov as Aida d) Louise Homer as Amneris (brown brothers) XIV Illustrations e) Enrico Caruso as Rhadames (the metropolitan opera guild) f) John Charles Thomas as Amonasro XII. Otello and F alstaff a) Francesco Tamagno as Otello (the metropolitan opera guild) b) Giovanni Martinelli as Otello c) Ramon Vinay as Otello d) Victor Maurel as Falstaff (the metropolitan opera guild) e) Lawrence Tibbett as Ford (the metropolitan opera guild) f) Angelo Bada as Dr. Caius XIII. Verdi a) Leo Slezak as Manrico in II Trovatore (the metropolitan opera guild) b) Jussi Bjoerling as Manrico in II Trovatore (loots melancon) c) Alessandro Bonci as the Duke in Rigoletto d) Titta Ruffo as Rigoletto (culver service) e) Leonard Warren as Rigoletto f) Lawrence Tibbett as Simon Boccanegra XIV. Tosca and Madama Butterfly a) Milka Ternina as Floria Tosca (the metropolitan opera guild) b) Maria Jeritza as Floria Tosca (marie tschiedel, Vienna) c) Geraldine Farrar as Floria Tosca (culver service) d) Enrico Caruso as Cavaradossi (brown brothers) e) Antonio Scotti as Scarpia Illustrations XV f) Geraldine Farrar as Cio-Cio-San (the metropolitan opera guild) g) Licia Albanese as Cio-Cio-San XV. Faust a) Nellie Melba as Marguerite b) Geraldine Farrar as Marguerite (culver service) c) Riccardo Martin as Faust (the metropolitan opera guild) d) Edouard de Reszke as Mephistopheles (the metropolitan opera guild) e) Pol Plangon as Mephistopheles XVI. Carmen a) Emma Calve as Carmen (the metropolitan opera guild) b) Maria Gay as Carmen (the metropolitan opera guild) c) Bruna Castagna as Carmen (the metropolitan opera guild) d) Rene Maison as Don Jose (the metropolitan opera guild) e) Marcel Journet as Escamillo (the metropolitan opera guild) f) Giuseppe Campanari as Escamillo g) The Act II quintet: Alessio de Paolis, Thelma Votipka, Lili Djanel, Lucielle Browning, George Cehanovsky [following page 394 ] XVII. Manon a) Lucrezia Bori as Manon (carlo edwards) b) Beniamino Gigli as Des Grieux XVI Illustrations c) Richard Crooks as Des Grieux (the metropolitan opera guild) d) Leon Rothier as Comte des Grieux (culver service) XVIII. Characterizations a) Geraldine Farrar as Caterina Hiibscher, Pasquale Amato as Napoleone, in Madame Sans-GSne (culver service) b) Rosina Galli c) Frances Alda as the Princess in Marouf (white studio) d) Enrico Caruso as Julien, Geraldine Farrar as Louise, in Julien (culver service) e) Grace Moore as Louise in Louise (wide world studio) XIX. Boris Godunov a) Feodor Chaliapin as Boris Godunov (the metropolitan opera guild) b) Ezio Pinza as Boris Godunov c) Alexander Kipnis as Boris Godunov d) Kerstin Thorborg as Marina (alfredo valente) XX. American and English Opera a) Lucrezia Bori as Mary, Edward Johnson as Peter Ibbetson, in Peter Ibbetson (carlo edwards) h) Leonard Warren as Ilo, Astrid Vamay as Telea, Raoul Jobin as Luca, in The Island God (set- ting by Richard Rychtarik (THE NEW YORK TIMES) c) Mack Harrell as Samson, Regina Resnik as De- lilah, in The Warrior (THE NEW YORK TIMES) d) Act II scene from Peter Grimes, with Polyna Stoska (louis melan^on) Illustrations XVII XXI. Sopranos a) Marcella Sembrich b) Luisa Tetrazzini c) Claudia Muzio (as Norma in Norma ) d) Rosa Ponselle (as Santuzza in Cavalleria Rusti- cana) (culver service) e) Amelita Galli-Curci as Violetta in La Traviata XXII. Sopranos and Contraltos a) Emma Eames (brown brothers) b) Louise Homer (as Orfeo in Orfeo ed Euridice ) (brown brothers) c) Gladys Swarthout (as Stephano in Romeo et Juliette) (the metropolitan opera guild) d) Marian Talley (as Philine in Mignon) (the metropolitan opera guild) e) Queena Mario (as Gretel in Hansel und Gretel) (wide world studio) XXIII. Managers of the Metropolitan— I a) Henry E. Abbey (the metropolitan opera guild) b) Edmund Stanton (the metropolitan opera guild) c) Walter and Leopold Damrosch (the metropolitan opera guild) d) Maurice Grau e) Heinrich Conried XXIV. Managers of the Metropolitan— II a) Giulio Gatti-Casazza (the metropolitan opera guild) b) Andreas Dippel (as Raoul in Les Huguenots) (the metropolitan opera guild) c) Edward Ziegler, Earle Lewis, Edward Johnson (wide world studio) xviii Illustrations d) Herbert Witherspoon (wide world studio) e) Rudolf Bing (sedge le blang) XXV. Metropolitan Conductors— I a) Anton Seidl (the metropolitan opera guild) b) Alfred Hertz (brown brothers) c) Gustav Mahler, from a mezzotint by Emil Orlik (the metropolitan opera guild) d) Arturo Toscanini e) Artur Bodanzky (the metropolitan opera guild) XXVI. Metropolitan Conductors— II a) Tullio Serafin (wide world studio) b) Ettore Panizza c) Erich Leinsdorf d) George Szell e) Bruno Walter XXVII. Metropolitan Conductors— III a) Fritz Stiedry (else m. rumpler) b) Sir Thomas Beecham c) Fritz Busch d) Fritz Reiner e) Jonel Perlea XXVIII. Some Personnel and a Rehearsal a) Joseph Urban (culver service) b) William J. Guard c) Maria Savage Illustrations xix d) Rehearsal (1944-5 season) of Das Rheingold, with Emery Darcy as Froh, William Hargrave as Donner, John Garris as Loge, Jarmila Novotna as Freia, Emanuel List as Fafner, Kerstin Thorborg as Fricka, Herbert Janssen as Wotan XXIX. News Good and Bad a) Arturo Toscanini the day he left the Metropolitan (April 25, 1915) (culver service) b) Geraldine Farrar, leaving on a tour, bids farewell to some gerryflappers (April 15, 1922) (culver service) c) Marjorie Lawrence rides Grane in the final scene of Gotterdammerung (wide world studio) d) Richard Knight stands on his head outside the Metropolitan on opening night (November 27, 1939) (n. y. daily news photo) e) Mrs. Frank C. Henderson in the Metropolitan Opera House Bar on opening night (Novem- ber 11, 1947) (n. y. daily news photo) XXX. Productions— I a) Enrico Caruso as Rhadames, Adamo Didur as Ramfis, in the consecration scene of Aida on the first Toscanini opening night (November 16, 1908) (culver service) b) Angelo Bada as Prince Shuisky, Adamo Didur as Boris Godunov, in Boris Godunov, first Amer- ican performance (March 19, 1913) (culver service) XXXI. Productions— II a) Scene from Act II of Fidelio (1914-15 season) with Arthur Middleton as Fernando, Otto Goritz as Pizarro, Jacques Urlus as Florestan, Margarete Matzenauer as Leonore, Elisabeth XX Illustrations Schumann as Marzelline, Carl Braun as Rocco, Albert Reiss as Jaquino (culver service) b) Final scene from L’Amore dei T re Re (1917-18 season), with Pasquale Amato as Manfredo, Claudia Muzio as Fiora, Jose Mardones as Archibaldo (culver service) XXXII. Productions— III a) Act III scene from II Barbiere di Siviglia ( 1940- 41 season), with Irra Petina as Berta, Jo- sephine Tuminia as Rosina, Ezio Pinza as Don Basilio, Salvatore Baccaloni as Doctor Bar- tolo, John Charles Thomas as Figaro, Bruno Landi as Almaviva b) Opening scene from Le Nozze di Figaro (1948— 9 season), with Alessio de Paolis as Basilio, Jarmila Novotna as Cherubino, John Brown- lee as the Count, Bidu Sayao as Susanna (louis melanqon) Patrons and Purposes *•§)) 3 (($*» CHAPTER I PATRONS AND PURPOSES O pera has been given continuously at the Metropolitan Opera House, 1423 Broadway, New York City, for nearly seventy years— since its first season of 1883. In that time no work by a native American— indeed, no work created on the North Ameri- can continent— has had any lasting success in its repertory. In this as well as in other ways it has taken on a coloration peculiarly American. As opposed to those countries (now including England) where opera is given largely in the vernacular, opera at the Metropolitan is given largely in the language of its original text. As opposed to those countries (now, also, including England) where opera is state or municipally supported, opera at the Metropolitan con- tinues to struggle along with only negative assistance from gov- ernmental groups. Mostly this assistance has taken the form of tax relief. Though the budget of the city of New York is larger than that of many European countries, it gives not one penny of aid to this world-celebrated institution. The international tinge of the Metropolitan and its lack of subsidy thus denominate it “American,” though it gave opera for seven seasons in German only, reached its greatest glory under the direction of two Italians, and has most recently been directed by a Canadian and an English subject of Austrian birth. One American, Herbert Witherspoon, interrupted this sequence; but he died before his work was fairly begun. The Metropolitan is oddly American, too, in outliving the cir- cumstances that brought it into being— indeed, the whole mental atmosphere that determined its location, size, and structure. Like the national Capitol in Washington (once a central point of a concentrated federation), it is a relic of another day’s thinking, no longer suitable for the purpose it serves, and vastly more costly to maintain for that reason. It has eaten up its original 4 The Metropolitan Opera cost many times over in deficits that persist for lack of plan or direction in meeting the changes, social and economic, of half a century. Few of us today could imagine a society in which a mere whim could determine the existence of such a structure as the Metro- politan. Lilli Lehmann has recorded the circumstances in her memoirs, My Path through Life (New York: G. P. Putnam’s Sons; 1914) : “As, on a particular evening, one of the millionair- esses did not receive the box in which she intended to shine be- cause another woman had anticipated her, the husband of the former took prompt action and caused the Metropolitan Opera House to rise.” The box denied was, of course, in the Academy of Music, on Fourteenth Street, the fashionable home of opera in New York from 1849. The person denied was a Vanderbilt, most prob- ably Mrs. William H. Her husband had but recently inherited a fortune from the family founder. Commodore Vanderbilt. Virtu- ally all the boxes in the Academy were held by older elements of New York society, sufficiently venerable to be known as the Knickerbocker gentry. Their money dated from the Revolution; those whose money dated only from the War between the States were considered tainted, no matter how much of it they had. William H. Vanderbilt came into most of the family fortune (ninety-four million dollars) when his father died, in 1877. The heir lived only until 1885, by which time he had doubled the stake entrusted to him. In a time of such untaxed accumulation of wealth, the hundreds of thousands of dollars required to create the most lavish theater were barely consequential. Vanderbilt could doubtless have done it by himself and held the theater as a physical chattel, as his heirs did as a social chattel through the long life of his daughter-in-law Grace Orme Wilson Vanderbilt (still living, in her eighties, in 1952, and the last recog- nized grande dame of New York society) . But he was willing enough to share the burden with other eager millionaires ex- cluded from the Academy of Music’s box-list. The critical period may be dated from April 4, 1880, when it was noted in the New York Times that George H. Warren, a lawyer and broker affiliated with Vanderbilt, had conferred with a group of Academy stockholders: August H. Belmont and Patrons and Purposes 5 Messrs. Lorillard, Van Hoffman, and Dinsmore. All the Acad- emy people could offer was a plan to add twenty-six boxes to the existing thirty. Obviously the old box-holders would remain the inner brotherhood. The offer was rejected. Within the week (on April 7) Warren announced to the press that $800,000 had been subscribed to create a new opera house. He identified the leading participants in the plan as: “The two Roosevelts, Iselins, Goelets, the Astors, the three Vanderbilts, the Morgans, myself, and others.” Had the building been erected on the first site chosen, the Metropolitan for all of these years would have stood on Vanderbilt Avenue, adjacent to Grand Central Terminal (between Forty-third and Forty-fourth Streets); but the deeds to some plots forbade erection of a theater where the Biltmore Hotel now stands. In mid-March 1881 the present site on Broadway between Thirty-ninth and Fortieth Streets was secured at an investment of $600,000. At the same time the capitalization was increased to $1,050,000. The rumor that this was a Vanderbilt project was dealt with in the New York Times of March 9, 1881: “Of the 10,500 shares, W. H. owns 300, W. K. 300, and Cornelius 150.” This gave the one faction five boxes, however, not to mention those possessed by in-laws and business dependents. A more real- istic view is offered on page 59. Delays in taking possession of the site and ousting stubborn leaseholders made completion of the project by the target date of October 1882 impossible. Even after construction had begun, with a foundation costing $125,000, increased costs of building materials caused gossip that the whole venture would be aban- doned, or an apartment building substituted. At a meeting called to decide the issue in 1882, only fifty-one of the seventy stock- holders appeared. Thirty-seven (a narrow majority of the whole) voted to go ahead on a capitalization now of $1,700,000. The final expenditure was $1,732,478.71. Perhaps because of the added expenditure, it was decided to fill in the corners of the structure (originally indented for a mod- est kind of eye-appeal) with rent-yielding apartments. As it was not unknown for a single ball, wedding-reception, or other social function of the day to cost the host $200,000, the factor of cost alone could not have been considered crucial in this decision. 6 The Metropolitan Opera Rather, it was that same concept of “good business” which im- pelled the elder Vanderbilt to haggle over the charge for a load of manure when he was a traction tycoon, and a struggling truck- farmer (his son William H.) was the customer. There are those who would cite the Metropolitan’s exterior as no uglier, really, than that of the Bayreuth Festspielhaus. vEstheti- cally the margin between them is narrow. But if severity is a char- acteristic of Wagner’s exterior design, utility is a criterion of its interior planning. No such balance can be found in the American structure of 1883. At that, its instigators cannot be held wholly blamable. They can hardly have imagined that it would survive into an era of telephone, wireless, television, and jet planes. That it would survive such then still unbuilt marvels as the Singer Building, the New Theater— thirty years younger— and the Ritz Hotel (a construction of 1914) would have been regarded as palpable nonsense. Whatever the majority sentiment, at least one member of the board of directors had a grasp of the business realities inherent in operating an opera house. Following one meeting to increase capitalization, James A. Roosevelt (fourth cousin of Franklin Delano) told a Times reporter on March 14, 1882: “We never expected that it would pay. No opera house in the world has ever paid as an investment, and none ever will.” If payment was lacking, other compensations were not. The house was first used on May 24, 1883, when the stockholders met to apportion the boxes. In a gambling spirit, location went by chance. From one hat, young Miss Warren drew a name; from another, Miss Townsend drew a number. As there were three less stockholders than the seventy boxes in the two tiers. Nos. 9, 24, and 35 remained unassigned. At the same meeting, an assessment of $5,000 was placed on each stockholder to underwrite comple- tion of the business properties. And, to relieve the “pressure” on the dauntless millionaires, the Bowery Savings Bank granted a mortgage of $600,000. 2 Having gone so far as to provide New York with its most mag- nificent gaslit structure, the innovators intended to go no further. Operation of the theater was obviously the province of a profes- Patrons and Purposes 7 sional who would entertain the public as Colonel Mapleson en- tertained it at the Academy of Music, and possibly make a profit as well. At that, the proposition was an inviting one, for the stock- holders posted a guarantee of $60,000, against possible losses in a season of sixty-one performances. “All” the operator had to do was dress the stage and engage an orchestra, stars, and supers. The contract was finally awarded to Henry E. Abbey, well known as a theatrical entrepreneur and manager of concert artists. His adviser on operatic matters was Maurice Grau, well versed in producing operettas and musical comedies. What Grau learned was of considerable value when he came into prominence a dec- ade later; but it was an expensive education for Abbey. Henry H. Krehbiel (in Chapters of Opera) quotes an Abbey associate (Schoeffel) as saying that the loss of the single season was $600,- 000. Doubtless this included the fifty-four road performances. In any case, the expense of outfitting nearly a score of operas would have placed a staggering burden on any single season's in- come. As well as paying such stars as Nilsson and Campanini one thousand dollars a performance. Abbey’s lavish hand provided a wardrobe in which “every costume, every shoe and stocking was provided . by Worth of Paris.” The witness to this extrava- gance was Lilli Lehmann, who came to New York two seasons later. Such matters could not fail to impress the unpretentious Lilli, whose frugality, when a reigning prima donna, extended to riding the horse car to and from the theater rather than engaging a hack. The directors met the obligation of their guarantee to Abbey, and also granted him the use of the theater for a benefit. This remarkable show (see page 92) added $1 6,000 to his personal fortune, but solvency was far away. He offered to run the theater for a second season without compensation of any kind if the stockholders would absorb his losses of the first, but the offer was laughed aside. Had Ernest Gye, impresario of Covent Garden, London, not been married to the soprano Emma Albani, the history of the next decade could have been quite different. Gye had been in the running for the lease before Abbey was selected, and negotiations were resumed with him on the assumption that he might still be interested. His wife, he replied, would have to be considered in 8 The Metropolitan Opera any plans he might make, which brought an end to the conver- sations. The stockholders were loyal to Nilsson, and no company of the time could accommodate more than a prima donna. In the end the stockholders had neither Nilsson nor Gye. Faced with the penalty of keeping the theater dark (and meeting tax charges anyway) while the Academy of Music crowd enjoyed a triumph, they accepted from Leopold Damrosch an offer that transformed the Metropolitan, for a period of seven years, into a German opera house. A moving spirit in the musical life of New York since his arrival from Germany ten years before, Damrosch proposed his own services as conductor and director for a season’s salary of $10,000. The orchestra would be his own Symphony Society; choristers from the Oratorio Society (which he also con- ducted) could be utilized; and he would recruit his principals from central Europe, thus avoiding the expensive stars of the Italian and French theaters. An appeal to the quarter-million persons of German extraction in New York would be made by attention to the long-neglected Wagner repertory. Damrosch was authorized to proceed in early August. Despite the handicap of this late date, his knowledge of the situation on both sides of the Atlantic supported his program. He gathered a company able to perform Rigoletto, William Tell, and La Juive (in German), as well as the promised Wagner (see page 94). At a four-dollar top (Abbey had asked seven), the public re- sponse was keen. By January 1885, business was running so far ahead of the previous year that Damrosch was encouraged to plan a second season. His salary was reduced to $8,000, but he would share in the profits. Damrosch did not live to see his scheme prosper, however. The overwhelming work load of opera performances, plus his concert routine, made him an easy victim to pneumonia, and he died on February 11. The fight for the vacated post was both ugly and unpleasant, with a prominent member of the company, Anton Schott, making noisy claim to recognition. He later claimed credit for directing attention to Anton Seidl, who was engaged as music director to succeed Damrosch; he did not otherwise add luster to the meager record of tenors for sagacity. As executive, the stockholders appointed Edmund G. Stanton, already serving as secretary to the board of directors. Young Patrons and Purposes 9 Walter Damrosch was sent abroad to negotiate with Seidl, and to give glamour to the roster by adding Max Alvary, Emil Fischer, and Lilli Lehmann to the company. The reduction in loss from $40,000 in the first Damrosch year to $25,000 in the first year under Seidl was gratifying. The ecstatic approval of the largely German-dominated press was welcome. When Mapleson gave up the fight at the Academy of Music in 1886, the Metropolitan’s stockholders could relax in content- ment. Even his aspersions against the “new yellow brewery on Broadway” could be shrugged aside; likewise his historic farewell: “I cannot fight Wall Street.” Seidl was given a three-year con- tract, and the Germanization of the theater proceeded. As too frequently in the pattern of Metropolitan operation, ex- pedience and convenience took precedence over any other con- siderations of how a representative opera house should be con- ducted. If Abbey was willing to risk his fortune, Italian opera sufficed. If Damrosch and Seidl could save money by giving German opera, German opera sufficed. Many of the difficulties that beset the Metropolitan in those early years were inherent in the ill-assorted coterie that had produced the money in the first place. They accepted a yearly assessment as part of the expense of social position, but with more than a few mental reservations about other responsibilities. So it was German opera for the next little while. When the time came for another decision in the spring of 1889, the advance sale for the next season stood at $80,000. This impressive figure could not be denied, and a vote to continue opera in German was upheld, 43 to 3. As may be noted, twenty-five stockholders did not even bother to vote. So long as there was no alternative to German opera at mini- mum losses, impatience, indeed boredom with its “heavy” intel- lectual pressures, were endured. When the novelty of the Wagner repertory wore off, and damaging experiments with such minor composers as Nessler, Briill, Smareglia, even the Duke of Saxe- Coburg, aroused objection in the press, a change became inevi- table. The box-holders were all for getting out of the responsi- bility of opera-producing as soon as possible (see page 113 ) . The alternative that presented itself could have been much worse. Abbey had recovered from his first season’s losses and f' ■ ¥ 1 : V t % ■i 1 io The Metropolitan Opera was again making money with such singers as Patti, Albani, Nordica, and Del Puente. Grau, now in his early forties, did most of the planning and direction of the company. When the com- pany presented a season of old favorites in the Metropolitan in the spring of 1890, the tunes and their singers cast their usual spell. When the existing commitments to the German group were fulfilled, the lease was given to Abbey and Grau, to begin with the fall of 1891. This decision was by no means unanimous, nor was it welcomed by that part of the press which represented the interests of the German-descended public. Without opera in German, they rea- soned, there would be no German opera, a matter of distress to those wedded to contemporary ideas of Italian opera being “old- fashioned,” and Wagner representing “the music of the future.” In addition, many of the box-holders who had joined up in the first flush of social enthusiasm for the new meeting-place were finding the continuing responsibilities irksome. As sometimes happens (if the participants are fortunate enough), a cumbersome situation was resolved by force mafeure. For the Metropolitan stockholders it was the fire of August 27, 1892, which consumed, along with wood and walls, the softer elements of the membership. Only those who cared enough about opera not to count its cost or those who had so much money that the cost did not matter took up the burden of re- financing and reconstruction. By far the largest number of the newly formed Metropolitan Opera and Real Estate Company were in the second category, and they soon evolved a formula whereby important money losses were held to a minimum for three decades. Through the terms of the lease with each producing group (until the sale of the property in 1940), the stockholders waived a rental charge, taking instead the use of the boxes for all sub- scription performances. Thus the opera-producing faction had no fixed rental to meet. On the other hand, those who occupied the most desirable seats in the theater— the only ones to which special prestige was attached— were relieved of any obligation or responsibility for the quality of work done. The contradiction inherent in this division of function has complicated much of the recent history of opera at the Metropolitan. Patrons and Purposes 11 3 When the scheme was first devised, however, and as long as the national economy remained substantially that of the 1890’s, it was well suited to the problem of the Metropolitan. Boxes-for- rent was a kind of subsidy— in the American tradition of tenant- farming, for example— in which, relieved of one item of over- head, the operating company could devote itself wholly to keeping the expense of opera below the income. Automatically a profit would follow. Not for fifteen years did the idea emerge that opera of the Metropolitan’s pretensions should not return a profit, that there was always a phase of opera to be improved if money was avail- able to be spent on it. Grau’s company prospered in spite of primi- tive staging, often execrable orchestral playing, and a uniform emphasis on star singers and stars alone. When he died and the control of the theater passed to a group headed by Heinrich Con- ried, the shortcomings of his predecessor were recognized and acted upon in a fashion— but always with the profit motive in mind. The transition from Grau (recognized as an entrepreneur and pretending to be nothing else) to the producing company headed by Conried (a theatrical manager with pretensions to intellectual leadership) introduced a new factor into the affairs of the Metro- politan. Grau’s own capital had been augmented by investments, for profit, of persons in the theatrical world. Conried’s backers were men of means with some social standing, if several rungs below those of the box-holders. To assure the box-holders against a fiasco on the Abbey order, Conried was required to post a guarantee of $150,000. Among the patrons of his Irving Place Theater (see page 181) was Henry Morgenthau, Si., who has re- lated the circumstances in his reminiscences, All in a Lifetime (New York: Doubleday, Page & Company; 1922) . Morgenthau scanned Conried’s projected list of backers (Thal- man, Guggenheim, Guggenheim er, and Ickelheimer) and scoffed at it as “a winelist.” He proposed the addition of such men as James Hazen Hyde, vice-president of the Equitable Life Insurance Company, Eliot Gregory, Henry Rogers Winthrop, George J. Gould, and J. Henry Smith. To give further solidity to 12 The Metropolitan Opera the membership, several of the box-holder group who were not averse to making a profit on the productions at the Metropolitan if it could be arranged— Alfred G. Vanderbilt, H. P. Whitney, and Robert Goelet (an Astor kinsman)— “gambled” ten thousand dollars apiece. By the narrow margin of one vote— seven to six —the Conried Metropolitan Opera Company was awarded the lease in 1902. Had the deciding vote been cast differently, the Metropolitan might have remained under a single leadership from 1903 until 1951. One director alone prevented the lease from going to a company headed by Walter Damrosch, a man of forty then, who became one of music’s hardiest patriarchs until his death in January 1951. The group that backed Conried for profit in 1903 was the genesis of the board of directors that, fifty years later, lias the task of keeping the Metropolitan open and operating. When Conried was bought out in 1908, his erstwhile associates established the principle that profits would no longer be expected from the opera- tion of the Metropolitan. A principal propagandist for this view was Otto H. Kahn, who had been nominated by Jacob H. Schiff (his business partner) to take the place on the Conried board originally set aside for him. (Schiff pleaded lack of time.) Thus the Metropolitan Opera Company, which came into being in 1908, not only engaged Giulio Gatti-Casazza, who re- mained general manager until 1935; it also comprised the indi- viduals who either themselves or through successors engaged Ed- ward Johnson in 1935, conducted the campaign for the funds to buy the building in 1940, and eventually engaged Rudolf Bing in 1949. The long-term trend, then, was to take ownership out of the hands of the group that had built the opera house as a place for social display and transfer it to a group interested primarily in the production of opera. The way had many tortuous turnings, and the path was anything but direct, but if there is a single line of evolution in the running of the theater, that is it. A rather fascinating instance of time and circumstances ac- complishing what man’s wit could not achieve may be found in the unquestionable status of the Metropolitan today as the single major opera-producing entity in the country. It was the hope and desire of Kahn and his associates that this end could be accom- plished through their financial resources in 1910, 1911, or 1912. Patrons and Purposes 1 3 It was first necessary to eliminate the local competition of Oscar Hammerstein at the Manhattan Opera House, at a cost of $1,200,000. Next his artists would be formed into a Philadelphia- Chicago Opera Company, with members of the Metropolitan board of directors sitting in on the planning for those cities. Next, Boston would be serviced from tie main office in New York. After that, presumably, other places would be added to the chain, as business opportunities took shape. Chicago, however, rebelled against the intrusion of New York millionaires, and Philadelphia soon proved itself unable to sup- port more than an occasional visit. When these facts became evident, Kahn and Company made an amicable arrangement for an occasional exchange of artists with Chicago and, for a while, welcomed the Western singers and repertory on visits to the Metropolitan. This arrangement did not endure for long, and for half a dozen years beginning in 1917 the Chicagoans’ visits made embarrassing competition— both financial and artistic— for the Metropolitan. With the entry of Samuel Insull into the affairs of the Chicago company, the New York visits ended, and a quiet arrangement was made between the two companies not to com- pete in the European market for the same artists. The scope of these plans is indicative of the new spirit that had come into the Metropolitan along with Conried, and it took firmer hold of its management as his time ran out. It is hard to imagine that Grau had other than a businessman’s pride in giv- ing opera that made money. When Conried’s replacement by Giulio Gatti-Casazza was announced on February 12, 1908, the management’s evaluation of its artistic pretensions can be read clearly: “To the high standards they [the directors of the Metro- politan Opera and Real Estate Company] have set is due the credit for having made the Metropolitan Opera House what it now is universally conceded to be— the 'Blue Ribbon’ of the oper- atic world.” The intermingling of the two groups had now become almost complete. Of Conried’s original backers there remained Goelet, Gould, Gregory, Hyde, Kahn, Mackay, Whitney, and Winthrop. Alfred Vanderbilt had been succeeded by his brother W. K. From the ownership company had been added W. Bayard Cut- ting and Hamilton McK. Twombly. Closely linked to the box- „<S5ESS» 14 The Metropolitan Opera holder faction, though not actually part of it, were several other new members: Edmund L. Baylies, Rawlins L. Cottenet, Frank G. Griswold, and T. De Witt Cuyler. Thus by 1908 one phase of the Metropolitan’s historic cycle was completed. After twenty-five years of operation it had been determined that opera should not make money, that it had a place of artistic responsibility to fulfill in the community (if not in the country) , and that it should be operated by salaried pro- fessionals with only an objective interest in the box-office takings. To provide New York with a broad program of opera in all its forms, the New Theater had been created on Central Park West where opera comique and other works too intimate for the vaster auditorium could be performed. Unfortunately, this desirable separation of activity did not survive a trial period during which Hammerstein was still active and the potential audience divided among three theaters. Thereafter it was decreed that the accous- tics of the New Theater were unsuitable for “serious” music, even in its lighter manner of opera comique. 4 With the elimination of Hammerstein, the abandonment of the New Theater, and the concentration of Kahn’s complete interest in opera on the Metropolitan, Gatti— for a time with Arturo Toscanini as his artistic collaborator— entered upon a period of financial and musical well-being which has had no parallel in opera production elsewhere. In place of the fifty- or sixty-thou- sand-dollar advance sale of the German opera period, the three or four times that amount of the Grau seasons, or even the half- million-dollar pre-season income of Conried, the subscription sale mounted steadily toward the million-dollar mark, eventually to pass it and continue well beyond. The proud program that had been installed on Gatti’s arrival was altered more than a little, however. The double orchestra engaged to carry the work load of performances at two New York theaters or in New York and Baltimore or Philadelphia simul- taneously was abandoned; the separate German and Italian cho- ruses were merged into one. Moreover, if profits from the opera- tion were no longer distributed as dividends to the stockholders, Gatti was not discouraged from budgeting his seasons in such a Patrons and Purposes 1 5 way as to make profits possible. Indeed, though the books show that income exceeded expenses in 1910-11 by $34,915 and in 1911-12 by $52,075, a rise in prices from $5 to $6 for orchestra seats was instituted for the 1912-13 season. For this season the credit balance reached the imposing sum of $133,858. These profits totaled well over $200,000, but it was not until the spring of 1914— following a season that left the company with a $66,609 balance— that the public had some intimation of these “favorable” developments. As he left for Europe on April 30, Gatti acknowledged: “Contrary to custom, the Metropolitan actually showed a financial profit during the season just com- pleted.” Impresarios, even as politicians, can be loose with the truth and still be considered to be serving “higher” purposes. For if it was commonly known that a profit existed, would it not follow that the artists would discover that they had, all along, been underpaid? When Gatti was released from cares of this sort, he could state in his book ( Memories of the Opera, page 304) the case the record supports: not until 1930, in the first year of the depression, did the twenty-year run of opera without a deficit under his direction come to an end. To be sure, the promise made to him on arrival: “In two or three years, a new Metropolitan Opera House will be built, an- swering all needs” ( Memories of the Opera) was not kept. As long as he remained in the theater, Gatti could congratulate him- self that he had at least insisted on the construction of a roof- stage for rehearsals (at the Seventh Avenue and Fortieth Street corner of the building) at a cost of $25,000. Otherwise, as in Johnson’s time (and still in Bing’s), a daytime visitor to the theater could hear the sounds of music being rehearsed in such unlikely places as the smoking-room on the grand-tier floor and the ladies’ parlor. All this argues a certain adaptability on Gatti’s part, a careful sensing of where money should be spent to advantage, a willing- ness to compromise where it might not show too much. The twin pillars of the structure he had created were Caruso and Tos- canini. It was his good fortune that Caruso was satisfied with a top fee of $2,500 a performance from 1914 on. No pittance, to be sure, but substantially less than a man of his popularity might have demanded. This not only assured Gatti of a satisfied star, i6 The Metropolitan Opera but put him in an advantageous bargaining position with lesser artists. Toscanini’s nature was otherwise. Neither adaptable nor inclined to compromise where artistic standards were at issue, he could not bear with restrictions on the free exercise of his talent when the money was available to assure that freedom. Already Toscanini had served the first contract of three years, with an extension through the season of 1914. When the break cam e, it was explained that only the outbreak of war prevented his reappearance. But rumors of his displeasure had been fre- quent, as had flat statements, from year to year, that each would be his last. Of the multiple factors that influenced his decision- some private, some artistic— the unquestionably overriding one was contributed by Kahn and his associates. Given the conditions that prevailed upon his arrival and for several years thereafter, it is altogether possible that his high standards would have con- tinued to dominate the theater for ten, twenty, even thirty years longer than they did. Riverdale, on the fringe of Manhattan, would have been as convenient to the Metropolitan as it has been to Studio 8H in Radio City and to Carnegie Hall. In common with most conscientious conductors, Toscanini had a violent dislike for the repertory system of opera-giving, in which the effects of rehearsal are dissipated by changes in per- sonnel. When policy dictates such changes, there is rarely time —even if there is money— for fresh rehearsal of such works in midseason. A study of the casts of the revivals and novelties Tos- canini conducted between 1908 and 1914 yields clear proof of his preference. Unlike most other conductors, even the most conscientious, Toscanini made his dislike operative not by fretting or “making do,” but merely by giving up the thing he disliked. Having failed in his efforts to make Gatti withdraw with him— arguing that a joint action would assure them all they' asked— he departed alone, and saw little of his old friend for seventeen years thereafter. Gatti's creed, often quoted, was Verdi’s dictum: “The theater was not built to be empty.” Toscanini’s idee fixe, if never articu- lated in words, is that, empty or full, the theater, like the concert hall, is the place for maximum effort or nothing. The points of view were not reconciled until the emotional occasion of 1932, when Toscanini conducted the Ninth Symphony of Beethoven Patrons and Purposes 17 in Carnegie Hall as a benefit for unemployed musicians, and the two men embraced in a banishment of old disagreements. Having measured the situation and the men involved, Tos- canini was immune to pleas for reconsideration. In the New York Times of June 21, 1931 Olin Downes wrote: “Very suddenly, however, the end came and Toscanini was on the wharf. The Metropolitan, as one member of the organization [Kahn] put it, awakening too late to the true situation, followed him there and threw its purse and its pride out of the window. Toscanini was definitely finished, and the wealth of the Indies would not have returned him to the fold.” A fuller statement of the same petition comes from another source. As reproduced by Krehbiel, a cable to Toscanini after his return to Italy read: Am happy to hear that you are considering Gatti-Casazza’ s propo- sition which has my fullest approval not only because it is meant as a public expression of our admiration and gratitude for what the Met- ropolitan owes to your unique genius, but also because it will give still greater scope and effect and force to your great personality in shaping the artistic development of the Metropolitan. I voice the sentiments of the Board and New York public and myself in expressing sincerest hopes that we may continue to enjoy the inspiration of your splendid art. You may rest assured that anything in my power to make your work here sympathetic and satisfactory to you will be cheerfully done. Kindest regards. Otto H. Kahn The “proposition,” it is commonly believed, was accession to all his demands, plus title of Artistic Director. There is no evi- dence that Toscanini ever replied to the cable. 5 Toscanini’s turn to the left at this crossroad was no more drastic than Gatti’s to the right, toward financial stability and artistic conservatism. The revision of business methods begun by Gatti was continued with the engagement of Edward Ziegler, formerly of the Herald musical staff, as “administrative secretary.” The job attracted to it whatever functions in the opera house Ziegler gradually deemed himself qualified to oversee, from negotiating contracts and supervising rehearsal costs to inventing means of 18 The Metropolitan Opera supplementing the Metropolitan’s income beyond box-office receipts. Ziegler more than earned his own salary at once by selling the Metropolitan’s endorsement of a piano for $15,000. Since phono- graph records first had begun to be made in Grau-Conried days, the Metropolitan had derived an income from those made by its members. In 1916 this amounted to $23,000, and it remained close to that level until 1925, when it soared to $50,663. No longer, however, was this wholly from records. Radio had now become a factor in the entertainment world, and the use of Met- ropolitan stars drove the entry in this column to $98,000 in 1927 . The same column was utilized for the income from broadcasts when it began ($173,000) in 1931. A further source of revenue was the levy on artists’ earnings in concert appearances. The custom was of long standing, derived from the period when Grau or Conried actually booked a tour for a Nordica or Caruso. It ended in the early 1930’s, when a central plank in the platform on which the American Guild of Musical Artists (AGMA) was founded was elimination of this impost. In the bookkeeping scheme, the income from the sale to a spon- sor of rights to the Metropolitan Auditions of the Air took its place. These points are introduced, not as digressions, but to stress two facts: labor costs were still so low that capacity business or close to it, plus the shrewd utilization of Metropolitan prestige, made for a healthy financial picture. Qualified management, such as Gatti provided, left virtually no financial burden for the stock- holders either of the producing company or of the ownership group. Nevertheless, it was considered sound policy for the manage- ment to proclaim the staggering problem of opera-giving at every opportunity, with the implication that only such selfless assist- ance as was rendered by Kahn and his associates made possible the maintenance of the Metropolitan’s title to the blue ribbon of the operatic world. A clear statement of this sort was made in 1926, when one of the periodic renewals of Gatti-Casazza’s con- tract prompted an editorial in the Herald Tribune (doubtless written by its then music critic, Lawrence Gilman) proposing that it be extended for life. The editorial also suggested that if Patrons and Purposes 19 the current impression of financial well-being was accurate, cer- tain artistic deficiencies could be remedied. Ziegler’s reply stated that the difference between income and expense “shows, and always has shown since Mr. Gatti-Casazza assumed control, a very considerable deficit, the precise amount of the deficit for last season being $226,991. It is only through skillful utilization of sources of revenue other than those which the opera-going public supplies that this deficit has been dimin- ished or covered, or at times somewhat more than covered.” One of the times was the year of the “deficit” quoted, in which, actually, there was a book profit on the year’s operations of $35,- 277. As Gatti’s statement elsewhere confirms, the other times were every year from 1910 to 1930. As well as taking credit for what they did not do to support the opera, the “patrons” were not averse to taking credit for not supporting other ventures in which they were interested. When the Diaghilev Ballet Russe toured the country in 1916, the “edu- cational service” of presenting the great works of the Russian repertory was nationally attributed to Kahn and his associates. The cash loss of $300,000, however, was charged against the books of the opera company. I know: I have seen them. Thus the lights and shadows in the picture of patrons and purposes. 6 With Toscanini gone and the war over, production of opera on an assembly-line system reached its greatest efficiency during the twenties. Though the death of Caruso ( 1921 ) and the retirement of Farrar (1922) deprived Gatti of two infinitely serviceable per- formers, Gigli and Jeritza— also Chaliapin and Galli-Curci— were of sufficient stature to make his program work. Earnings during the 1920’s may be tabulated as follows: 1921 $ 48,201 1922 49,14! 1923 66,872 1924 53,809 1925 35’ 2 77 1926 142,041 1927 144,378 20 The Metropolitan Opera With so level a graph of income over expenditures, Kahn could well afford a courteous but firm no-thank-you to an offer of aid in 1924 from the then new Juilliard Foundation. In the rising market the Metropolitan kept pace, with longer seasons at higher prices. The twenty-four-week subscription season be- came an established custom in 1926, and, with all technical prob- lems mastered, Gatti could schedule eight operas in six working days (plus a Sunday-night concert) while manipulating a reper- tory of forty-eight works. “Coolidge prosperity” being the order of the day, an $8.25 top for Metropolitan seats was the order of the night. It even rose to $8.50 in 1929. All these trends were centralized in one major manifestation: Kahn’s most serious attempt to make a “new” Metropolitan a reality. With the income of his producing group at an all-time high (over $3,000,000 from 1926 to 1929), and the public more evidently interested than ever, Kahn undertook to carry out his promise, first made in 1908 and periodically repeated. A catalogue of the reasons why the old house was ill suited to its purpose may be found elsewhere (Part II). Press, public, and artists were in agreement from the first Faust of 1883 that it was misshapen and badly designed. It served only one function per- fectly: display of those who occupied the boxes for which it was built. The decline of the opera as a social function and the equali- zation of interest among performers, raise en sc&ne, and orches- tra emphasized anew the failings of the structure. As theaters came and went on adjacent Broadway, air-conditioning became a commonplace, and movie audiences reveled in luxuries denied lovers of Verdi, Wagner, or Strauss, the static situation of the Metropolitan marked its lack of modem stage and lighting re- sources as a community disgrace. While boom-time economy prevailed, the penalties were vi- tally but exclusively artistic. Lurking in the background were days to come when labor would demand higher rates to offset the effects of mechanization. It was the dreary fate of the Metropolitan not to profit from mechanization, but still have to pay the vastly in- creased rates imposed by intractable unions. Lacking space for storage of scenery, it had to meet increased charges for off-prem- ises warehousing, plus staggering costs for trucking, as these ele- 21 Patrons and Purposes ments, too, followed a national pattern of reward to unskilled labor. Between the Scylla and Charybdis of taking in and taking out, hundreds of thousands of hard-earned dollars have been churned into the dirt and grime of the “strait of Messina” where this endless process goes on, day and night. Had Kahn’s lead been followed, at least this aspect of the Metropolitan’s plight would have been stabilized for generations to come. He first set forth the proposition that a new house was a “necessity” in 1924, affirming this position in a pamphlet dis- tributed to subscribers at the season’s end. Two major problems had to be resolved before serious thoughts of removal could be entertained: agreement on a site for the new building and adop- tion of a modus operandi for liquidating the present holdings and directing the funds thus realized to new construction. Delicate problems of timing were involved to prevent a lag between the date of leaving the old theater and that of entering the new. The behind-scenes activity was noted in the press of November 1925. An offer of seven million dollars had been made for the old site, but the Opera and Real Estate Company was holding out for ten. The new theater, it was rumored, might be on Seventy-second Street, facing Central Park (both Fifth Avenue and Central Park West were mentioned), or on Fifty-seventh Street between Eighth and Ninth Avenues. The usual denials (December) were followed by the usual confirmation (January) that Kahn had assembled the required space in the Fifty-seventh Street area and that the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company had underwritten a loan of $1,900,000 for the purchase. Rather than welcoming the news, one powerful faction in the ownership company remained aloof, not to say hostile. It was a faction sufficiently powerful to make its will the will of the ma- jority and to authorize a statement that for snobbishness and stubborn defense of entrenched authority can serve as a model in bad manners: If the music lovers of New York want a new opera house they are entitled to have one and the trustees of the present property will cer- tainly not oppose any obstacle or competition to such a project. They are not, however, of the opinion that the present house is antiquated or that its site is undesirable. It is producing opera more superbly than 22 The Metropolitan Opera anywhere else in the world. The accoustic properties of its auditorium are unsurpassed. . . . No doubt several of its characteristics could be improved and its superiority to other similar institutions still further enhanced. If it is desirable that the building should be replaced by one larger and more scientifically equipped, I presume the company of which Mr. Kahn is the chairman will undertake the project. Fulton Cutting, Chairman of the Board of Directors Metropolitan Opera and Real Estate Company The plain implication was that Kahn as a dilettante in the pro- duction of opera could be tolerated; Kahn as the leader in a so- cial hegira would not be (see page 24). No doubt Kahn, with his long indoctrination in the politics of the institution, had ex- pected such a rebuff. At any rate, he went ahead with plans to interest younger members of the box-holding faction. The sub- stance of his plan, when fully revealed, was epoch-making for the Metropolitan. Owned boxes would be abolished. Instead, the single tier to be included in the new house would be leased to a list of eligibles totaling one hundred and fifty, the list to be com- posed by consultation between the Cutting and Kahn groups. By January 1926 Kahn could claim a substantial group of re- cruits to his general proposal. Vincent Astor, Edward S. Harkness, Robert L. Gerry, E. Roland Harriman, and Frederic Potts Moore were added to the board of the producing company. All but Moore were box-holders or related to box-holders. The hopeful attitude was that the house could be completed by January 1928. Nothing consequential occurred for more than a year. The development, when it came, was important enough to justify the time of negotiation involved. In February. 1927 Kahn stated that the board of directors of the Opera and Real Estate Company had accepted the substance of his plan. The details, however, diverged greatly from his in one crucial respect: the box-holders would still form an ownership group. They would have undis- puted sway on Monday nights and either Thursday evenings or Saturday afternoons. For other performances the boxes would be available on rental to a group approved by a “box committee.” This scheme would be financed through liquidation of the original property, with each of thirty-five shareholders reinvest- Patrons and Purposes 23 ing $145,000. (This was substantially below the price at which boxes were selling in the 1920’s. See Part II.) The total thus avail- able for construction would be $4,640,000. Other than settling the all-important question of boxes, the statement proposed a theater seating nearly five thousand, with an abundant number of cheaper seats that would all command a good view of the stage— a detail, it was acknowledged, in which “the present audi- torium is sadly deficient.” To assure protection of their interests, the box-holders nomi- nated as architect Benjamin Wister Morris, whose works include the Morgan Memorial in Hartford and the annex to the J. Pier- pont Morgan Library on Madison Avenue in New York. His benediction is clear. Joseph Urban, who had designed the first of some forty scenic productions for the Metropolitan in 1917, was appointed “assistant architect.” (His enduring monument is the handsome Ziegfeld Theater on Sixth Avenue. ) Good will reached its high point in April 1927 when it was announced that a majority of the Metropolitan stockholders had agreed to turn in their stock and permit the Opera House Committee to proceed. The liaison, grudgingly accepted, barely survived the summer. By an odd irony, Deems Taylor— who had been handsomely favored by the Metropolitan in the production of two of his operas— was the deus ex machina. On a casual visit to Urban’s studio, he discovered the architect deep at work on his version of a desirable theater, and asked leave to make his own sketch for reproduction in Musical America, of which he was then editor. Its appearance, in the issue of October 8, 1927, though carefully described as in no sense “official,” brought an immediate reaction from the Real Estate group. The Morris idea, it was said, was much more severe than the cathedral-like interior projected by Urban. Morris himself promoted further confusion with the words: “There are no plans yet for the new opera house. The site has not yet been selected, and until it is there can be no plans.” Although this plainly contradicted all that Kahn had said, he could do no more than keep his pride in check and work for the object he cherished. When the Opera and Real Estate Company announced on October 10 that J. P. Morgan, Fulton Cutting, Cornelius N. Bliss, Jr., Robert S. Brewster, and De Lancey 24 The Metropolitan Opera Kountze had been nominated to find a "suitable” site, Kahn said merely: "Mr. Urban’s plans have not received the approval of, and their publication has not been authorized by, either Mr. Morris or the two organizations concerned.” He offered no com- ment on the attitude that Fifty-seventh Street was undesirable because of the near-by elevated railway. It was then scheduled for removal and has long since vanished. Between October and January the committee was said to be interested in locations at Fifty-ninth Street and Central Park South, noth Street facing the Park (and presumably backing on Harlem), the old New Theater site on Central Park West, and half a dozen other locations, all purely conversational. In Janu- ary, Kahn offered to hold his own site available for another month or two, but digressed into a little "background” that just about scuttled the sinking ship. He said that the Fifty-seventh Street site, the plan for the distribution of the boxes, and the scheme for financing had all “been approved last February by the unani- mous vote of the boards.” The common belief now is that a con- certed effort to overthrow that vote, unanimous though it was, was successfully led by Mrs. Cornelius Vanderbilt III through her nephew Robert Goelet (see page 299). At the end of January 1928 Kahn announced that his brokers had put the property on the market. As a commentary on the question whether a site had been agreed upon or not, one may cite an entry in the Metropolitan’s ledger for 1927 : "Architect’s fees for 57th Street site— $40,000.” Eventually the plot was utilized for an apartment development called the Parc Vendome. Kahn’s second mortgage of $1,600,000 was a complete loss in a reorganization of the 1930’s, and repre- sents his heaviest contribution to opera in New York. Finally, though the action of the Metropolitan Opera and Real Estate Company had deprived the public of its long-cherished hope, there was no indication that it owed anyone anything, even an explanation. It was left to the salaried secretary Frank Dodd to tell the press in an offhand way that his employers "objected to the commercial features of Mr. Kahn’s scheme.” Presumably the reference was to a skyscraper tower that would provide rent-bearing space to lessen the 'financial burden on the Patrons and Purposes 25 theater’s operation. Their own ancestors were hardly so fastidious in 1883 when the comers of the still-standing building were filled in for exactly the same reasons. 7 Conversationally if not concretely the stockholders found the subject of a “new” Metropolitan hard to drop. A focus for the conversation was provided by John D. Rockefeller, Jr. Although not specifically interested in opera, he was sufficiently imbued with community spirit to interest himself in the whole problem. In August 1928 he announced that his brokers had assembled a considerable plot of land between Fifth and Sixth Avenues, bounded by Forty-ninth and Fiftieth Streets— -the earliest form of what is now known as Rockefeller Center, or Radio City. In the Herald Tribune, Rockefeller’s motivation was explained thus: “The deal was consummated primarily to provide a new location for a new Metropolitan Opera House.” Kahn professed to know nothing about the plans. Cutting, however, did. “Every- thing looks very promising,” he said. How far the realities of the situation had been canvassed one cannot say at this time; but it appears doubtful that they had been very thoroughly explored. For one thing, the Opera and Real Estate Company was looking for a purchaser who would pay $13,000,000 for the Broadway property, whereas the current opinion was that $8,000,000 would be high. Moreover, the Rocke- feller plan would have required the box-holders to build a theater and then pay him ground rent— there was no provision for the builders to have their boxes rent free. Time raced ahead as the opera people looked for a purchaser to pay top dollar for their land, and Rockefeller resorted to legal action to clear out the speakeasies that crowded the area. Eventu- ally it arrived at October 29, 1929, the bottom dropped out of the real-estate market, and the value of the Broadway property declined sharply. Not even the addition to the board of directors of Ivy Lee (public-relations counselor for the Rockefellers) could reverse the general trend. Thus passed the moment of opportunity, which had struck not once, but twice. Twenty-five years later, the best opinion of the z6 The Metropolitan Opera Metropolitan’s land worth is four million dollars, half the “fair” valuation of 1928. At the rate at which construction costs have appreciated, the Metropolitan’s equity is a fraction of what it once was. In the elaboration of the Radio City scheme, a place remained earmarked for an opera house, and plans to that end were actu- ally filed on April 8, 1932. It was explained, however, that this was a mere incident in the routine of filling out the original project and signified nothing. A building of fifteen stories was projected, containing an opera house that would seat 4,042 and cost approximately $4,500,000. When the land was eventually utilized, it bore a parking garage— which, at least, probably has no deficit. When the final words on the Radio City prospects were spoken, they came not from Otto H. Kahn, but from Paul E>. Cravath, his lawyer and associate in many cultural ventures, who had succeeded him as chairman of the opera-producing board in October 1931. “I should not feel very disappointed,” he said, "if we had to stay on in the old house. It has associations and tradi- tions which attach audiences to it.” Not only the man but the ideas had changed: for a prospect of comfort was substituted a continuation of the miserable sight-lines and the side-saddle, neck-craning posture that arc the real tradition of the Metropoli- tan for those who cannot afford expensive scats or arc not fortu- nate enough to secure the small proportion of desirable ones at cheaper rates. Whatever Cravath's suitability to act as spokesman for the Metropolitan at any time, it was an unquestionable hardship for him to act as its spokesman in a period as difficult and in some ways discreditable as any in its long history. The small loss for the year 1929-30— subscriptions, of course, had been paid for prior to the crash— was but a straw in the wind: $14,743. This left virtually no mark on Gatti’s celebrated surplus of $1,000,000, much of it rolled up in the 1920’s, when the promise of a new theater resulted in cutbacks of normal spending on scenic re- placements— with results that were still being felt twenty years later. Hie deadly parallel of slipping income and rising losses grew alarming in 1930 and 1931: 2 7 Patrons and Purposes Income Losses 1930 $2,667,062 $322,231 1931 2 , 1 75 , 9 11 497,213 1932 1,165,996 339,901 (The 1932 season had been shortened to sixteen weeks, the top ticket price reduced to $7.) By contrast with losses in the era since World War II, when labor costs and non-musical expenses have hungrily swallowed the maximum income from capacity business, these losses were caused in large part by severe decline in attendance, coupled with expenditures based on the expectations of boom years. The first steps toward retrenchment were taken early in the 1931-2 season, when Gatti proposed a “voluntary” cut of ten per cent— in the fashion of the time— for all salaried employees. The intent was to save $200,000. None demurred save Beniamino Gigli, the company’s leading tenor and heaviest earner at the time. The unionized employees were saved from making a decision by their superiors, who denied the request. For the musicians, the secre- tary of Local 802, Edward Canavan, declared that a lower wage than the existing minimum of $128 a week would impair the ability of employed musicians to aid unemployed ones. Although Cravath denied rumors that the company might suspend— “no one could explain how the company could avoid the obligations of its contracts and subscriptions without going into bankruptcy”— the position of Gigli (who had total earnings of $275,000 coming to him over a four-year period) and the unions prompted drastic action. The Metropolitan Opera Com- pany ceased to exist, and the Metropolitan Opera Association took its place. The magnitude of the calamity that had come upon the insti- tution was not yet realized by directors, artists, or union func- tionaries. Not a change, but an upheaval impended. It took half a dozen years, at least, for all the factors at work to assert them- selves and for the situation to be recreated with some promise of stability. In the meantime it was inevitable that all concerned would seek to preserve some shred of vested interest and act in a way that history might judge, objectively, as rather badly. 28 The Metropolitan Opera In midwinter Gatti informed Ms company that he had offered to serve without salary if necessary, and added: “In such a critical and decisive moment, it would be petty . to raise questions of contracts and rights” (italics mine). A generous offer, so it seemed, but hardly in the light of facts now known: that his original salary of $25,000 a year had been raised to $30,000 in 1915, after Toscanini’s departure, and remained at that level until 1928, when it was doubled to $60,000, and moved up to $67,057 f° r season of 1930-1, in which the company lost $322,231. It remained at $59,169 for 1931 and $57,736 for 1932, but after this “offer” he still drew $43,108 for 1933! Nor was this all the Metropolitan paid to Gatti or his dependents. His second wife, ballerina Rosina Galli, received $224,000 for her services during the period 1921-30. How much of this was known to Gigli and his lawyer, the late Fiorello H. La Guardia, it is hard to say; more than a little, if opera secrets were then what they are now. In any event, acri- mony was intensified when at the season’s end Gigli returned his contract, which still had three years to run, and informed the press that his “sincere efforts [to work out a solution] had been met with conditions and impositions which would have dimin- ished my dignity as a man and an artist.” In reply, Gatti exposed a letter dated April 12, signed by all the re-engaged personnel, in which Gigli’s conduct was described as “inexcusable” and he was accused of “lack of co-operation and esprit de corps.” The general belief is that the re-engaged artists were offered a new contract with one hand and the petition with the other, with the understanding that they were to sign both. As Gigli phrased it, the signatures were “not written spontane- ously.” On a later occasion (Rome, January 1934) he was quoted as saying: “I would have been one of the first to accept a cut of even 30% had I not been told point-blank that . . . the con- tract, Gatti-Casazza informed me, was ‘not worth the paper it was written on.’ ” Hard times require hard measures. But they do not require the hard measures to be applauded for their wisdom ($43,000 re- mains a large sum for an opera manager who had volunteered to serve for nothing) nor that those who endorse them be admired as art patrons and social leaders. All the forces of respectability Patrons and Purposes 29 were marshaled behind Gatti in a letter of thanks from the board on May 18: I wish to express to you my satisfaction as chairman of the board and that of the board of directors of the Metropolitan Opera Association, with the masterly manner in which you have performed this task. . . . Sincerely Yours, Paul D. Cravath Chairman That the structure Gatti and Kahn had so cunningly contrived over a twenty-five-year period was to be cast into the discard by three seasons’ adversity was doubtless a tragedy to both of them. Gatti has written that it had been an unpleasant experience for him to learn, in 1908, that "his predecessor had left a deficit.” Doubtless it would have been the deepest kind of satisfaction for him to leave the Metropolitan one million dollars richer than when he arrived. That much would have been tangible, what- ever the carping of the critics; but it was not to be. 8 In the blessed wisdom of hindsight, it would clearly have been better for the newly formed Metropolitan Opera Association to start afresh with a new general manager as well as a new corporate structure. In electing Franklin D. Roosevelt President in 1932, the people of the United States had not merely “turned the ras- cals out,” as they proverbially do in so-called “bad times.” They had given assent to a program of social-economic change which vastly enhanced the bargaining power of labor, in the arts as well as in the factory. In a national picture so small an item as an opera budget is hardly consequential; but if it is the only opera we have, it mounts in importance. An opera budget geared to the “free market” days of the 1920’s would not bear the strain of newly powerful labor pressure. Something would have to give, and eventually it did in 1935, when $1,000 a performance became the top fee for Metropolitan personnel, and the number of artists in that bracket was sharply limited. Gatti’s contract, however, had three seasons to run still, on its latest renewal (presumably it could have been abrogated as were all others, but he was in a position to protect his own interest). 30 The Metropolitan Opera and his long career argued for the opportunity to steer the ship to safe waters. Had not he proved his sagacity with profit-making opera? What man could do better? No one could see that the situation had altered radically, and that it would never again be as it was. As Cravath had said on the previous December 15, “bank- ruptcy . . . was quite out of the question.” But the convenient substitute of the time— reorganization— was not. In place of the old Metropolitan Opera Company, with stockholders and, now, empty coffers, the Metropolitan Opera Association was created. It acquired the scenery, costumes, and other effects of the prede- cessor group for the traditional dollar, while waiving all its former obligations, as to Gigli. More important still, as an “educational institution,” it was granted exemption from federal amusement taxes. Thus it could make its ticket prices more attractive to a depression-wise public without reducing its own share of the income. The singers accepted new contracts, well aware they had no alternative. The public accepted the new company placidly, if it was at all aware that a change had occurred. (Actually, public and press continued to refer to the Metropolitan Opera “Com- pany” long after it had ceased to exist. ) One who did not accept the change without speaking his mind was Artur Bodanzky. On his arrival from Europe, the press informed him that opera enterprises in Philadelphia and Chicago had closed down for lack of financial backing. “That is not like your real Americans,” said Bodanzky, “but it is decidedly like those who use opera for their own social ends. Gentlemen, upon my word, I had no intention of discussing the finances of the Metropolitan. But you have brought it up, so perhaps it is just as well. I say it was the artists who saved this distinctly great American institution from going to the wall. The bankers and the backers— why, they quit!” Bodanzky intimated that there was a “plan afoot” to take the Metropolitan out of the hands of the “wealthy few” and put it in the hands of the “appreciative public.” He suggested that the reporters take it up with Ziegler and Gatti. Nothing further was available from those sources. Possibly Bodanzky visualized some such development as occurred in 1940, when the box-holders re- Patrons and Purposes 31 linquished their holdings for a price. If so, he did not live to see its realization. Despite the lowered prices and the shortened season, the stretches of empty seats at almost every performance argued dire things when the returns for the year would come in. There were rumors that the company would give up the old, uneconomic house and move to the Center Theater (the “small” house in the Rockefeller development, which nevertheless seats over 4,000). The rumors implied that backers not welcomed in the old home would pay the bills in the new one. Nothing ever came of these suppositions, for perhaps the simplest of reasons. The Center Theater has a handsome auditorium and fine lighting facilities, but it is even less suitable, backstage, for a repertory opera com- pany, with its need for scenic elbow-room, than the Metropolitan. Finally, it backs directly on Forty-eighth Street, and enlargement of its facilities are impossible. In 1950 it found its destiny, as a home for elaborate television productions. The decision finally taken by the Metropolitan Opera Asso- ciation was historic, for it charted the course regularly taken there- after when costs exceeded income— that is to say, almost annually for the next twenty years. In substance, it followed the format of the Cutting letter to Kahn (if a new opera house is desirable, pre- sumably you will build it) , with the difference that it now read: if continued production of opera is desirable, presumably the pub- lic will pay for it. There can be no objection to this as a principle. There can be objection to it, as there was, when the boxes still remained the property of a privileged few, and the conduct of the institution remained in the hands of those who did little to deserve their positions of prominence. The first situation was amended in 1940, but it is not too harsh to say that the second still persists. Cravath’s communication to Cutting (February 10, 1933) dripped with self-justifications that there is no present need to repeat. In a typical pattern of evasion, it mentioned the $1,000,- 000 surplus amassed by Gatti and confounded reason by proclaim- ing this was done “without profit to the stockholders, who never received a dollar in dividends.” (The company was organized on that basis!) To meet the losses of the 1932-3 season— $150,000— 52 The Metropolitan Opera a “guaranty fund of $150,000 was subscribed by various directors of your company and ours and by other patrons of opera.” To judge from the inclusive description, the per capita contribution could not have been very large. It stands as the only spontaneous contribution by the so-called “backers” in a quarter of a century. Cravath might have mentioned, but did not, the example of Chicago, where Harold F. McCormick underwrote the single season of 1921-2, directed by Mary Garden, at a cost of $1,100,- 000. Or the Chicago deficit of $450,000 met by a group of under- writers in 1928, before the depression. Or the construction, dur- ing this same decade, of the modem theater on Wacker Drive. All of this did not lead to the establishment of opera on a durable basis in Chicago, but it left memories of results in quality rarely matched at the Metropolitan. An unfortunate consequence of the propaganda thus spread was the public impression that the operations of the Metropoli- tan should, somehow, be profit-making— unlike those of other any first-class opera in the world. If the directors did not siphon dividends from it in good days, that was proof of their greatheart- edness. If the management piled up a surplus, that was proof of its success. The fact, of course, is that both premises are false. What is “good opera”? It is not a static quality, like a peck of potatoes or a loaf of bread. It is always and ever susceptible to improvement, and that improvement— in our unionized, mer- cantile civilization— can be accomplished only by spending money: money for rehearsals, money for scenery, money for better artists. Yes, and money for decent, workable, livable sur- roundings. The widely acclaimed foresight by which Gatti accu- mulated his $1,000,000 did enable opera to go along two years longer in losing years; but it also left an inheritance of shabby scenery and outmoded facilities which remained a staggering handicap for many times two years. Cutting’s answer to the Cravath letter was to propose a com- mittee of box-holders— Bliss, Brewster, Myron C. Taylor, and himself— to meet with a group of Association board members and three senior artists: Lucrezia Bori, Edward Johnson, and Law- rence Tibbett. Together the groups comprised a “Committee for Saving Metropolitan Opera.” With Edward Johnson as the first speaker, and a pledge to Patrons and Purposes 33 “reduce expenditures to the lowest possible point consistent with the high artistic standards which have always prevailed at the Metropolitan,” the campaign began with a radio broadcast on February 25, 1933. Present and past members of the company (including the long-retired Geraldine Farrar) spoke at some in- termission of every performance for the remainder of the season. One consequence of rather far-reaching importance which re- sulted from this campaign was the reminder that A. D. Juilliard, wealthy textile manufacturer and a box-holder for many years, had left a sizable fortune in 1919 to be used for musical philan- thropy. A first proviso of his will was: “To aid by gift or part of such income at such times and to such extent and in such amounts as the trustees of such foundations may in their discre- tion deem proper, the Metropolitan Opera Company . . . pro- viding that suitable arrangements can be made with such com- pany so that such gifts shall in no way inure to its monetary profit.” As previously noted (page 20), the trustees had fulfilled Juilliard’s desires by making an offer of aid in 1924, which Kahn refused. Thereafter they devoted virtually all of the $13,000,000 realized from the liquidation of Juilliard’s assets to the creation of the Juilliard School of Music, with its manifold investments in property, buildings, teaching facilities, and so on. The “reminder” was set forth in a letter to the New York Times on March 1 by William Mattheus Sullivan, a lawyer ac- quainted with Juilliard and his interest in opera. Almost immedi- ately John Erskine, then president of the Foundation, affirmed the intention of himself and his associates to “see the Metropoli- tan through,” though he denied that the Sullivan letter had any part in this decision. Eventually it developed that the gift was only $50,000 and that the campaign must continue on its horta- tory way. With the aid of benefit performances, a ball in a Second Empire setting, and a gift of $25,000 from the Carnegie Corpo- ration, the sum was raised by mid-April. Some recommendations accompanied the Juilliard donation —more American singers were to be engaged, a supplementary season of opera comique was proposed, Juilliard students were to be admitted to rehearsals— but these could scarcely become opera- tive while the old hands guided the theater in the old way. For 34 The Metropolitan Opera example, it did not become known until several years later (New York Times, June 16, 1935) that the company's leading conduc- tor of the Italian repertory, Tullio Serafin, received $58,000 in salary during the first of Gatti’s losing years. After successive re- ductions, mutually agreed upon, he received $34,000 for the season of 1933-4. both instances— though Serafin did not bother to mention this— he was paid at a rate of $2,425 a week: for by 1933-4 the work period had shrunk to fourteen weeks. Whether a payment to a single artist of $34,000— one tenth of the sum required to finance an entire season— was consistent with a pledge to “reduce expenditures to the lowest possible point” may be doubted. But it indicates the kind of earnings that had bur- geoned at the Metropolitan during the 1920’s, and the magnitude of the task that confronted Herbert Witherspoon, then Edward Johnson, when Gatti retired. One more campaign for funds was necessary before Gatti’s contract expired, for the 1933-4 season used up $317,582 of the company’s resources. It was not conducted on a scale similar to that of the first, for the Philharmonic-Symphony Society was en- gaged in a campaign for a million-dollar subsidy, and the New York public— on which both institutions depended primarily— could scarcely support two competing ventures. The campaign was conducted largely in the opera house and by private solicita- tion among members of the boards and their friends. An all-star vaudeville show— called a “Surprise Party”— helped, and there was another ball, this time in a Louis XIV setting. The Juilliard Foundation again contributed, this time $40,000. Presumably about $250,000 was raised, though no figure was published: the last Gatti season lost $230,538, in any case. This brought the cost of opera over income to $1,705,465 during the final five years of his direction. While these losses, caused in some degree at least by the anti- quated working conditions of the theater, were being made good by the public, another sizable sum was poured into the bottom- less pit at Thirty-ninth Street and Broadway to perpetuate its costly existence. A routine investigation of the building in the spring of 1934 drew an adverse report on the electrical wiring of the stage area. It was as it had been since 1903, but the recent transfer of supervisory functions from the Fire Department to P atrons and Purposes 3 5 the Superintendent of Buildings had invoked the judgment of electrical engineers. Their standards were different from those of the Fire Department members. At an expense of $1,500,000, in those prewar days, the Opera and Real Estate Company could have underwritten a thorough- going modernization of stage and auditorium, thus making amends for the neglect of thirty years. But a compromise was decreed. The all-important air-conditioning system, which would have made the theater usable twelve months in the year, was deemed too expensive. (The construction of the theater has to be considered in this connection: its walls actually bear a heavy part of the support of the superstructure, and thus are massively thick. Burrowing through them to install the ducts for a con- ditioning system would, in fact, be uncommonly expensive.) For the summer of 1934 attention was concentrated on the urgently needed electrical work, including a new switchboard. A new curtain was installed, and the front, only, of the building sandblasted. The Seventh Avenue facade remains as dirty today as it has been for thirty years or more. In the summer of 1935 an air- circulating system— which merely substitutes street air of nature’s own temperature for the murk of the auditorium— was installed. These half measures were accomplished at no cost to the box-holders. It was no problem to raise $600,000 by a mort- gage on the building, which had been unencumbered for sixteen years. Surprisingly, it had never occurred to anyone to do this rather than appeal to the public for money when opera-giving was in jeopardy. 9 The imminent departure of Gatti at his last season began in 1934, and the probability that a successor could be induced to take a more flexible part in amending the long-standing patterns of op- eration. led at this time to new activity toward finding a long- range solution to the problems that had cost the Metropolitan over one million dollars in losses during the years from 1930 to 1935. To be sure, national recovery was prerequisite to the success of any plan, but the business brains involved with the arts had begun to doubt that the lush days of the 1920’s would return. Steady tax rises were already making clear the decline of private 36 The Metropolitan Opera philanthropies on the large scale of old, and labor had not yet begun to play the cards in its hands. Mention has been made of the financial problems that faced the New York Philharmonic-Symphony Orchestra in this period. Beyond the deficits incurred in its normal plan of operation, there was the harrowing threat, periodically renewed, that Car- negie Hall— of which it was the steadiest user of space— might be sold for more profitable construction on its site or converted into a film theater. It was a mere matter of time before a scheme emerged to consolidate New York’s two principal music-making activities under a single roof, with financial savings to both. Bruno Walter, arriving in the fall to begin a series of guest engagements, bravely declared that the largest city in the world could and should support the two institutions independently. But enough sentiment for the merger existed for an emissary to be sent abroad to sound out Arturo Toscanini, who held a power of decision as the Philharmonic’s musical director since his return to New York in 1925. When Bruno Zirato, assistant manager of the orchestra, had laid the plan before the Maestro and reported back to New York on December 12, 1934, this road of escape was closed. Toscanini cited, first, the unfavorable acoustics of the Metropolitan for symphony concerts; second, his belief that the smaller repertory necessary under the changed system would not satisfy the New York public; third, his fear that Philharmonic standards would suffer. The first of these was a physical fact hard to disregard; the second a mere opinion (since proved wrong, first by Johnson, more radically by Bing); the third only a speculation. Thus the one fixed question was: under which roof could the plan be car- ried out? Because the Metropolitan’s was the only one available, it could not be carried out. Speaking for his father, Walter Tos- canini told the Times : “My father does not think the merger will work because the Metropolitan is too old a theater. They should have a new Metropolitan. Father advised this some time ago.” Those who later taxed Johnson for not inducing Toscanini to conduct some gala or other at the Metropolitan must have for- gotten the succeeding words: “It is absolutely to be excluded that my father would ever resume direction in the Metropolitan.” Nothing further was done. That only an undesirable setting Patrons and Purposes yj was available has remained a liability of the desirable features of the plan. Sober thought must be, however, that a modem Music Center to house both activities would be the ideal solution for the problems of each. Along a line of commercial reasoning, the firm known as Trade Ways, Inc., was retained to survey the Metropolitan’s books and determine which operas were most popular and what length of season was most advantageous. That both might be gravely in- fluenced by who sang what or in what style the operas were con- ducted was apparently not considered material. In the end it was the Juilliard Foundation that took a responsi- ble view of the situation, this time providing more than token aid. The negotiations resulted not only in the appointment of Herbert Witherspoon, a recent member of the Juilliard faculty, as Gatti’s successor, but also in the establishment of some philosophic prin- ciples that strongly influenced the Metropolitan for years to come. The conditions under which the aid was forthcoming are worth examining in some detail. After restating at length the circumstances that had brought the members of the Metropolitan board to solicit assistance, and the prior commitments that made that assistance difficult to provide, the lengthy statement of March 7, 1935 set forth the preconditions on which aid would be provided: A budget that would have “every promise of operating without a deficit.” A substantial increase in subscription sales. Increased opportunity for young American talents, particularly through the device of a supplementary season at modest prices ($3 was suggested as the price for the most expensive seats) . The financial aid provided by the Juilliard Foundation was $150,000, in a total underwriting of $250,000. Its aid would be contingent on an increase of at least ten per cent in the subscrip- tion sale for the 1935-6 season. Costs of both the regular and the supplemental season would be prorated against the separate contributions. As further protection for its interests, the Juilliard Foundation requested the addition to the Metropolitan’s board of directors of John Erskine, president of the Juilliard School, Ernest Hutche- 38 The Metropolitan Opera son, its dean, and two of its trustees: John M. Perry and Felix Warburg. As Witherspoon’s associates in conducting the Metro- politan, the two groups agreed that Edward Ziegler should con- tinue his long-standing functions, and that Edward Johnson should organize and direct the supplemental season. Little tine remained for Witherspoon to work out details of his first season, and he devoted himself to it tirelessly. On the eve of leaving for Europe, he collapsed in the manager’s office of a heart attack on May 10 and died almost immediately. In this wise Edward Johnson was elevated to the position he held for the next fifteen years. Among the devices called into being to carry out the Juilliard stipulations was an Opera Management Committee, with John Erskine as chairman and Lucrezia Bori, Cornelius Bliss, and Allen Wardwell (lawyer for the Foundation) as co-members with Johnson. Its functions were absorbed by the Metropolitan’s board of directors within a few seasons, but another group or- ganized at the time still endures and steadily grows more in- fluential. This was The Metropolitan Opera Guild, organized in August to stimulate subscription sales and attendance generally. Mrs. August Belmont was its chairman, a post she held till 1942. Her fellow officers were Mrs. Myron C. Taylor, Mrs. Herbert Wither- spoon, and Harvey D. Gibson. The two thousand members of its first year have increased twentyfold, with all the states of the Union now represented. Along with promoting interest in the Metropolitan among the younger element of New York’s popu- lation, the Guild has done much useful work in raising funds dur- ing several campaigns, and underwriting the restaging of the Ring cycle in 1947. As a mental review of the Johnson seasons will suggest, much of the thinking represented in the Juilliard stipulations became firm Metropolitan practice. Outstanding, perhaps, if not spelled out, was the revision of fees paid to principal artists, with a top of $1,000 a performance. World conditions have changed con- siderably in a decade and a half, and a thousand American dol- lars does not have the buying power it had in 1935. Consequently some prominent European artists do not consider it a lure, espe- cially as diminished by our taxes. It has made one aspect of the Patrons and Purposes 39 budget manageable, however, at least when others got out of hand. On the other hand, the supplemental season idea did not work out at all. Artistically (see page 464) , the management could find too few “young” singers who could sing acceptably in the big house, whose requirements are as formidable in May as in Janu- ary. Moreover, the capricious spring climate of New York— it may often be as sultry as November or as chilly as June— was a sorry liability. The air-circulating system made little difference, though a pipe line to the air-conditioned lobby of the Roxy Theater would have. After two seasons’ trial the efforts were abandoned. The City Center Opera was eventually evolved on a sounder foundation (European and American artists plus air-conditioning in a more compact auditorium) to fill the need clearly visualized in the Juilliard proposals. 10 The downward trend of receipts, which had reached its lowest point in modem history in 1933, made its first significant upward turn in 1935-6. Incomes for the two final Gatti seasons were virtually equal— $1,085,036 in 1933-4 an< ^ $1 >090,970 ™ 1 934 — but a trend for the better emerged in 1935, when the income was $1,231,333. This increase of about $140,000 comfortably sur- passed the condition of the Juilliard contribution, both in sub- scription sales and in single tickets. Thereafter the gain was steady for five years: 1 93 6— $i, 437,385 1937— $1,645,329 1938— $1,780,704 1 939 _ $1,780,861 1940— $1,860,511 The impact of the war, blackouts, curtailed rail service, and rationing of gasoline had well-remembered effects in 1941 and 1942, with a decline to $1,645,784 in 1941 and a further slip to $1,502,708 in 1942. By then the general acceptance of altered habits of travel and the so-called “war prosperity” gave new stimulation to Metropolitan attendance. The new trend was as follows: 4 ° The Metropolitan Opera 1943— $1, 805,530 1944— $1,911,655 1945— $2,251,069 There can be little doubt that the five-year period 1935-40 was a crucial one in Metropolitan affairs. Without the upward trend of income, indicating a slow revival of more general interest in the company, it is possible that the Operddmmerung would have finally come. There was a question in 1892 whether a home for opera on the Metropolitan scale could be maintained after the fire. The question of 1940 was whether a home for opera could be maintained at all. Having showed that it did not propose to let opera die, the long-suffering public was given another chance to help it meet a crisis. Succinctly, the Metropolitan Opera and Real Estate Com- pany succumbed to the inevitable cycle of death and taxes. It had endured beyond the lives of its founders and the interest of their descendants. By 1939 half of the boxes were held by the estates of original investors, who could be neither shamed nor coerced into meeting the obligations that went with the privileges. On July 19 it became the unhappy responsibility of Robert Brewster, president of the box-holding group— as the minds of most persons were absorbed with the Sudetenland and when Hitler would march into Danzig— to inform the Opera Association: “Certain stockholders have refused to pay the assessment levied on their shares, and in spite of repeated requests have persisted in this refusal.” What this meant, merely, was that the company lacked funds to pay its taxes, though it represented the wealthiest— or at least the most exclusive— segment of New York society. Brewster acknowledged that the income from the annual as- sessment ($4,500 per box) and that from the rent-bearing proper- ties in the building were together sufficient for taxes, interest on the mortgage, and other costs of maintenance. There was no out- wardly induced crisis. The crisis was internal and could have been resolved by the simple device of reorganization. The possibility that the remiss minority might be succeeded by others was cov- ered by Brewster with the single statement: “The only recourse of the company is the sale of such shares, for which at present there appears to be no market.” The immemorial clannishness of Patrons and Purposes 41 the box-holders (see page 72, the Dodd statement on box sales) leaves little doubt that possible purchasers were limited to those who had already withdrawn their trade. No doubt all the arrangements proposed by Bliss in his public reply had already been rehearsed in camera: the opera-producing company would take an option for purchase of the building with a deposit of $100. It would agree to provide by the following May 31 (1940) a total of $1,970,000 (the old, magic figure of original construction), $500,000 to be paid in cash, the mortgage of $470,000 outstanding from the renovations of 1934-5 t° be as- sumed by the Association, and bonds to the amount of $1,000,- 000 to be issued for the rest of the sum. Beyond the $100 deposit, Bliss surmised that the funds “in a substantial amount” would “probably involve a public appeal.” Although the advantage to the public of retaining in existence a house long deemed uneconomic was dubious, the initiative for a clean break was lacking. “Fix it up, wear it out, make it do,” was a war slogan that might have originated at the Metropolitan. The graceful and public-spirited thing, of course, would have been for the box-holders— very few of whom had personally in- vested in the stock held in their names by inheritance— to have counterproposed liquidation at a far more nominal amount, to earn some measure of gratitude from the public that had paid the upkeep of their social setting for so long. The reverse, rather, hap- pened, with one group of “patrons” banded into a dissident fac- tion that disapproved this settlement and demanded a more fav- orable one. This became public knowledge in January 1940, when the Bliss proposal was accepted by 68 Vi per cent of voting shares, a bare few points more than required for such a decision. The decision had been delayed, according to the Herald Tribune of December 10, 1939, because the minority had threatened court action to make “the value of the property” the condition of sale, and the majority had hoped to persuade them otherwise. The dissenters were identified as Robert Goelet, Frazier Jelke, Mary W. Harri- man, and Forsyth Wickes, and representatives for the estates of James B. and Henry Clews (co-owners of No. 12), Georgine Iselin, Elbridge T. Gerry, and Mrs. Arthur Little. As may be noted elsewhere, Miss Iselin frequently made a profit by sub- 42 The Metropolitan Opera letting her box in good years (page 70), and Goelet had been an active opponent of the Kahn plan for a new house. Jelke had some justice on his side, for he had paid $200,000 for the Harold Vanderbilt box in 1926, and thus had enjoyed relatively short return on his investment. The position of the dissenters was that the assessed valuation of building and land was $5,000,000, that a sale on the open market would yield a much larger return than the less than $2,000,000 proposed by the Association. Plainly they had no in- terest in the continuance of opera in New York. They were inter- ested only in a liquidation at the highest possible price, whether the money was provided by the public or by a real-estate specula- tor. Their suit was eventually carried to the Appellate Division (May 1942), where the appraisers appointed by the Supreme Court presented a majority opinion that $75 a share— less than the amount provided in the sale contract— was a fair valuation. Jelke’s attorney, Harold B. O’Neill, contended that the minority report of the third appraiser ($202.61 a share) should be granted, because the assenting stockholders had received $144 a share for their stock— $47 in cash, the rest in four per cent bonds. The court was not impressed. Although the purchase itself required only $500,000 in cash, it was decided to make a campaign for twice that amount. It was patiently explained by George A. Sloan, who conducted the cam- paign, that the future of the enterprise had to be assured when title was taken to the building. In addition to this requirement for operating capital, plans called for replacement of the no longer salable grand-tier boxes with several hundred individual seats, installation of more comfortable chairs in the balcony, some badly needed building repairs, and improvement of the backstage sanitary facilities, which for fifty years had been the despair of stars and supers. A vast force of public opinion was harnessed to raise the nec- essary amount. It was not promised that another appeal for funds would never be necessary, but it was implied that purchase of the house would put the Association on “a sound financial basis.” (Black figures finally appeared in the books in 1944, but the ac- countants have bought considerably more red ink than black since then. ) With the Guild and AGMA co-operating, ten gov- Patrons and Purposes 43 emers serving on a committee of 175 civic and educational lead- ers, of which Fiorello H. La Guardia was chairman, and fifteen foundations making contributions, it was nevertheless the radio audience that provided the largest sum from a single source when the results of the campaign were tabulated in May: $327,000. Something less than the equivalent of four box-holders returned the sale price of their holdings to the Association, in a contribu- tion of $144,400. Other important categories were identified as follows: Fifteen foundations . $149,482 (Juilliard, $70,000 Business and financial concerns . $M*5 l 7 Carnegie, $50,000' Opera subscribers . $ 86,000 Directors of the Association $ 70,621 Out-of-town opera groups . $ 61,186 Artists, management, and em- ployees $ 36,496 Metropolitan Opera Club mem- bers $ 20,429 Labor and theatrical groups $ 6,745 Grand total $1,042,000 When the title of the area designated on the real-estate map of New York City as Block 81 5 passed to the Metropolitan Opera Association on June 28, 1940, a full cycle had been completed. The property was bought and the building erected by a group that desired to provide a home for opera, but had no interest in the production of it. Fifty-seven years later, after a slow but per- ceptible progression, it passed to the control of a group interested in the production of opera, but not particularly interested in owning the home for it— save as ownership became a necessary protection of its primary interests. It is the completion of an evolutionary process that the house should be owned by those who operate it, for there is no longer any valid social cachet attached to the audience side of the theater. Those “who own it” are, in fact, the people of the state of New York. The theater, under its charter, cannot be sold save 44 The Metropolitan Opera to provide for the continuance of operation elsewhere, and any funds realized from a liquidation and not needed for payment of outstanding debts would revert to the Secretary of the State of New York. In such circumstances, those who make its command decisions and hire the employees to carry them out are in no sense patrons of the arts: it is the public that must be pleased, the unions that must be reckoned with. Even the press must be heeded. For the present Association to utter such stiff-necked statements as a Cutting could issue with impunity or a Cravath without it would make it not merely offensive but ridiculous as well. n The circumstances that decreed that the Opera Association should own its own home have also encumbered it with certain notable disadvantages. For the inconvenience of being a tenant it has substituted the inconvenience of being a landlord. There were problems to be solved, changes to be made before the latent gains became actualities; then new problems to be solved when the financial easement gained by temporary measures was sub- ject to new pressures. The hope, for example, that the change in status of the owner- ship would result in immediate relief from real-estate taxes was ill-founded. When such a bill was passed by the New York State Legislature in 1941, it was vetoed by Governor Herbert Lehmann at the behest of Mayor Fiorello La Guardia, who had his philo- sophical reasons for deciding that it would establish “a vicious precedent.” The bill was eventually signed into law by Governor Thomas Dewey in April 1943. He asserted that “a matter so vital to the culture of this state, the nation and the world, transcends home rule”— the principle La Guardia had invoked in asking for Lehmann’s veto. Before the relief became operative, the Metropolitan was forced to meet several years’ tax bills, cutting heavily into the money earmarked for operating capital after the sale. Also the decline of attendance in the first years of American participation in the war upset calculations. Hence another public appeal was decreed in 1943-4, from which $316,793 was collected from 40,370 contributors. The resumption of touring at the war’s end and the exemption Patrons and Purposes 45 from real-estate taxes, together with a high level of attendance, enabled the Metropolitan to conduct its affairs without loss through the season of 1946-7— but without new productions to replace those which had been through the mill of twenty and thirty years’ use. Affairs took an ugly turn again in 1947-8, with a net deficit of $233,357 despite an increase of $195,000 in in- come over the previous season’s. The significant fact was that the Metropolitan had in this year achieved a $3,000,000 income for the first time in twenty years. In 1928 an income of $3,111,805 during a season of twenty-four weeks (plus a brief tour) permitted a credit balance of $90,937, as well as the mounting of four works never given at the Metro- politan before, and a new Manon (still in use in 1952). In 1947-8 an income slightly larger (produced in part by a lengthy tour) resulted in a loss of $233,357— a s P rea d of $320,000. The clear inference is that restoring the income to what it was in the best of boom times would not offset the multitudinous ways in which the production of opera has become more expensive, even without the sums paid to such stars as Jeritza, Chaliapin, Gigli, and Serafin. Some of this deficit— about $50,000— was attributed to miscal- culation on the cost of Lee Simonson’s Ring productions. The Guild had raised $149,245 for the purpose, but the cost was closer to $200,000. A heavy rehearsal schedule for the Wagner works and Benjamin Britten’s Peter Grimes also was costly. And the unions, which had settled for periodic small increases during the war years, were clamoring for certain guarantees they had waived during a period of great labor progress in other fields: social- security protection and state unemployment insurance as spe- cifics, with a pension system as a desirable, if more remote, pos- sibility. As late as August 24, 1948 there was no agreement on a con- tract to cover the 1948-9 season; it had, in fact, been written off by the Association’s board of directors. Eventually pressure of public and press compelled a compromise, by which the Associa- tion promised to provide the desired benefits as soon as possible and the unions agreed to hold wages at the high level of 1946. It became Rudolf Bing’s problem to settle in the spring of 1950, at an immediate cost of $60,000, and an annual addition to the 46 The Metropolitan Opera budget of close to $100,000. In return for adjustment in the size of the chorus and concessions on some desired replacements, a wage increase was granted to this group at about the same time. In the closing year of Edward Johnson’s direction, a semipublic appeal was conducted by the Opera Guild to raise $250,000 for several new productions to embellish his last weeks. Most of the amount was consumed in the production of Mussorgsky’s Kho- vanshchina and Puccini’s Manon Lescaut, plus the touching up of several works taken from the warehouse. Meanwhile agitation had been instituted for a bill to relieve the Metropolitan of the amusement tax levied in wartime and still in force as of 1950. With its performances in New York and on the road yielding over $3,000,000, relief of the ten per cent tax would enable the com- pany to retain over $300,000 paid annually in federal taxes. Just as passage of the bill seemed assured in June 1950, the outbreak of the Korean War changed the whole national taxation problem, and Metropolitan relief was forgotten. Not until the fall of 1951 was the subject given sympathetic consideration. In the mean- time pressing budgetary problems and the prospect of future ones made another appeal for funds mandatory in the spring of 1951, this time for $750,000. Among the gratifying signs of public accountability the Asso- ciation has given in the last decade are its annual financial state- ments. Instituted in 1944, they have provided the interested por- tion of the public with a clarifying insight into the operations, the problems, and the peculiar difficulties that confront the Metropolitan. Embellished though they are with such self- flattering phrases as “one of the great opera houses of the world,” “a bulwark of culture in an uncertain world,” “opera of Metro- politan quality”— as though that quality had any consistency from day to day— they talk, at least, of opera and nothing else. In January 1949 Chairman Sloan made history by telling a radio audience— while asking for money for the latest “crisis”: “A new opera house with modern technical and storage facilities and a larger seating capacity would undoubtedly contribute to an easier financial picture. Extensive alterations of our present house, both backstage and in the auditorium, plus the installation of air con- ditioning offer another possibility.” Thus the antiquity of the structure was finally given its proper place in the mottled picture Patrons and Purposes 47 of financial frustration provided by a theater in which the opera- tors are assured of a loss— even at capacity business— each time the curtain is raised. Since then, one further chimera of a “new” Metropolitan has appeared and disappeared. At the prompting of Robert Moses, Chairman of the Port of New York Authority, it was believed that a large site at Columbus Circle— running west between Fifty-eighth and Fifty-ninth Streets— could be made available to the Metropolitan as part of condemnation proceedings for a housing project. Word of this was first heard in May 1951. The Metropolitan would be required to raise $1,200,000 for the site, with an option to build within a stated period thereafter. With forty per cent of the amount subscribed by one anonymous citi- zen, the total was almost in hand in March 1952 when word came from Washington that the arrangement did not conform to the law governing housing projects. As this Ancient Mariner of opera houses pursues its life-in- death course across troubled financial waters, it wears an alba- tross of its own— interest payment on the bonds still outstanding from the purchase of a dozen years ago. During the 1944 appeal for funds, Sloan stated that $755,100 in bonds were still outstand- ing; $400,800 were held by estates, $354,00 by living individuals. To the question: “Would the gift of these bonds to the Metro- politan Opera Association be welcomed?” Sloan replied: “As welcome as the flowers in May.” Initially only four box-holders were public-spirited enough to waive both cash and bonds; a few returned the cash and kept the bonds, or vice versa. As of 1950, the list of those contributing all or part of their bonds includes the estate of E. H. Harriman, Myron C. Taylor, Cornelius N. Bliss, Mrs. John T. Pratt, Mrs. Francis P. Garvan, Mrs. Margaret Haggin, Lady V. Gabriel, the heirs of Otto H. Kahn and Arthur Curtiss James, R. V. N. Gam- brill, H. E. Manville, Olivia M. Cutting, R. Thornton Wilson, G. Beekman Hoppin, Mrs. M. Haven Wickes, Mrs. Cornelius Vanderbilt, and the Mary Owen Borden Memorial Foundation (the last representing the Harriman interests) . “All or in part,” however, is a phrase of considerable vagueness — Mrs. Vanderbilt, for example, remitted only $5,000. As of Janu- ary 1950, the total of the bonds held by the Association was 48 The Metropolitan Opera $394,000 of which $130,500 was acquired in the settlement of the suit by the dissident element, and $264,400 from the persons listed above. Thus, bonds in the amount of $604,000 are still outstanding. At an interest rate of four per cent, this levies on the institution an annual carrying charge of $25,000 that might well provide for a modest revival of the one-act Don Pasquale or new scenery for Salome, a sandblasting of the Seventh Avenue end of the build- ing, or a few necessary renovations in the dressing-rooms. It is a not inappropriate commentary that certain of the box- holders whose families built the house, lived in it as long as it suited their purposes, and abandoned it when it no longer did, still receive, on the average, $1,200 in interest annually. Assum- ing that they are sufficiently interested to subscribe for the ances- tral box on the preferred Monday, they continue to attend the opera without charge and actually without an assessment. The current cost of once-a-week box subscription would be $1,080. House and Home <•§)) 5 1 ((£•» CHAPTER II HOUSE AND HOME T he circumstances that decreed the creation of the house have been amply described (page 4); hut their effect on the structure, if almost to be termed indescribable, cannot be lightly disregarded. As certainly as the pews of a church are ranged in lines ordained by the purpose of the structure, so the Metropolitan was built around the tiers of boxes which were its original sin. All attempts to reconcile the structure to changing times have been balked by the idea and its execution. In what seemed to them wisdom, the founding fathers were not to be convicted of such a parsimony in boxes as caused them to leave the Academy of Music. Nearly seventy years of use have so affected the arrangement of space in the unchanging interior that many persons do not realize that there were two full tiers of boxes only ten years ago. Many fewer are aware that the audi- torium was built with a third tier of boxes (soon converted into the present dress circle). In addition, the area given over to the orchestra circle and the standing space behind it provided another type of box in the original design. They were called baignoires (from their resemblance to bathtubs). Some cherished them for the curtains and hangings that almost hid the occupants from view, but their utility was hardly as great as their novelty. When the house was rebuilt after the fire of 1892, they were replaced with seats. (The renovations of 1953 will make them part of the parquet proper. ) The emphasis on these original details is no mere matter of whimsy. They are a deeply significant part of the whole space distribution. Because the balcony and family circle were occupied by persons of inferior status, those who paid the way for opera could ignore their complaints of poor visibility. The poor visi- bility endures, however, long years after any one group or social caste accepted the responsibility. If the sponsors were aware at all of the shocking inadequacy of the structure, it was most likely under the circumstances described by Robert Goelet in his 52 The Metropolitan Opera memoirs, The Old Order Changeth, privately published in 1940: “From the uppermost rows, known as the ‘peanut gallery’ in com- mon jargon, only about one-quarter of the seats had a view of the stage. The writer can vouch for this fact, having had to sit in them on various occasions when he served on committees to see if the situation could not be ameliorated.” It will hardly surprise those acquainted with matters Metro- politan that the plans were originally drawn for another site than the one finally utilized (see page 5). Four firms of architects had been invited to submit plans, and the accepted one of Josiah Clcaveland Cady shows little reworking from the design for the Vanderbilt Avenue site—a square block— for the Broadway site, which is decidedly rectangular (205 feet on Broadway. 197 feet on Seventh Avenue, 284 feet on Thirty-ninth Street, and 229 feet on Fortieth Street). Vanderbilt Avenue Broadway Boxes 674 7 ^ Parquet 800 600 Balcony 58° 7^ Gallery 1,100 97 * Total i 4,1^4 vm*; Stage 70 ft. deep Hu It. deep 120 ft. wide 101 It. wide amended form of 1942 the totals are: Boxes 280 Parquet Orchestra circle Guild box (Vi Club box Grand-tier seats 1 6-j Dress circle Balcony h. r Family circle ■<> Total V 4 fi; Standing room (downstairs * 1 Standing room (family circle) Hi) Grand Total ^.84^ House and Home 53 Cady’s position among New York architects was an illustrious one, and some monuments to his memory remain— the American Museum of Natural History, St. Andrew’s Church, the Hudson Street Hospital. But the only one that has the slightest relation to a theater is the Metropolitan; hardly the appropriate qualifi- cation for designing the largest venture of the kind yet under- taken in America. When the finished structure met with some dissatisfaction, Cady responded rather plaintively in the New York Tribune of November 12, 1883: "Probably no other building in the country has received so much care and thought.” Hundreds of drawings were made before the final sight-lines were decided upon, though the final result certainly underlines the incompatibility of design and site. Among European theaters studied was Covent Garden; indeed, its plans were made available to Cady by Ernest Gye, its lessor, who had hopes of securing the same rights in New York. Those who have seen the London theater know its similarity to the Metropolitan. To invoke such non-American influence was, of course, ab- surd: the nineteenth-century European houses were built to suit the hierarchy that supported them. Imperial boxes, and others arranged at reasonable distances from the throne, were appropri- ate enough in theaters that endured through the bounty of one class. It could be contended that the Vanderbilts and Morgans regarded themselves in somewhat the same light; but it is appar- ent that only the display appealed to them, not the attendant responsibilities. The insufficiencies of the auditorium were at least the out- growth of a specific plan, however maladroit; the crippling inade- quacy of the backstage area can only be charged to ignorance of theatrical requirements. Most hampering, and ever more costly, is the lack of space to store scenery. Cady imagined that an area below the stage could serve this purpose. This was not only inade- quate, but a hazard that contributed so much to the fire of 1892 that its use thereafter was forbidden. Because the building stands as an island in a sea of traffic, al- terations can be effected in only one direction— up. Periodically, as plans for a new house wax and wane, there is a revival of senti- ment for renovation rather than relocation. This calls for demo- 54 The Metropolitan Opera lition of the area from the proscenium to the back wall, and the erection of twin towers— five or six floors each— on either side of the stage. (Construction laws in New York forbid building over a stage.) The lower area on either side would serve as scene docks, with adequate dressing-rooms, rehearsal space, offices, and so forth on the upper floors. The shortcomings of the Metropolitan for theatrical purposes are not merely a consequence of its age and the vast improve- ments in designing since its construction. In the first review of a Metropolitan performance ever written by Henry T. Finck, the long-time critic of the New York Evening Post said on October 23, 1883: “From an artistic and musical point of view, the large number of boxes . is a decided mistake.” When the first season ended, Italo Campanini (the company’s leading Italian tenor) told a Times reporter: “The reason why the performances failed largely of their proper effect is that the house is unfit for music. . . . When Mr. Fabbri [a banker related by marriage to the Vanderbilt family] first spoke to me about plans for the new opera house I suggested that he should examine the new Cos- tanzi Theater at Rome. It cost about $600,000 to build but it is incomparably finer . . . than your Metropolitan. I should ad- vise the directors of the Metropolitan to tear out the inside . . . and rebuild. . . . No half measures . . . will do any good.” Half measures, however, are the only ones that have ever been applied to the problem. The considerations that were to influence seven decades of Met- ropolitan opera hardly concerned the audience that gathered for the opening Faust on October 22, 1883. The choice of opera was doubtless a compliment to the company’s prima donna, Christine Nilsson (she had been the first Marguerite at the Paris Opera); it also suited the occasion, though some critics deemed it “old-fashioned.” During the long intermissions of a perform- ance that began, a half hour late, at 7.15 and lasted until 12.45, the audience had ample opportunity to marvel at the magnificent gas chandelier, to admire the murals of Francis Lathrop and Francis Maynard, to study the interior decorations of E. P. Tred- will. Many in the theater brought along the day’s papers, in which diagrams were published documenting the two tiers of House and Home 55 stockholders’ boxes. The custom of publishing such pertinent data in the house program was not begun until 1886. Much was made of the simultaneous opening of the Academy of Music season with Etelka Gerster in La Sonnambula. In place of the “monopolists” (as the New York Dramatic Mirror de- scribed the Metropolitan box-holders), the Academy audience included Astors, Belmonts, Cuttings, Bayards, Beekmans, and Schuylers, the proudest of Knickerbocker aristocracy. Dr. Leo- pold Damrosch and Theodore Thomas, New York’s most promi- nent resident musicians, were faithful to the established order. Mapleson invoked a Parisian analogy to compliment his patrons as “the Faubourg St. Germain of the town,” sniffing at the Metro- politan crowd as “a number of rich persons who want some new way of spending money.” Mapleson might have justly called them very rich persons, for along with the Vanderbilts and others already identified with the project (see page 5), the box-owners included Ogden Goelet, Adrian Iselin, Elbridge T. Gerry, George F. Baker, William C. Whitney, Cyrus Field, G. G. Haven, J. W. Drexel, William Rhinelander, and Luther Kountze. Still others, regarded as “new” millionaires, were Jay Gould, C. P. Huntington, James Gordon Bennett, D. Ogden Mills, James Harriman, and William Rocke- feller. How much interest most of these had in opera will be indi- cated in the pages to come; certainly they had substantially less interest when it became, exclusively, German opera. They en- dured it because it was economical, because the public responded in sizable numbers, and because the enthusiastic reception of the press for the unfamiliar masterpieces of Wagner gave them a flattering status as art patrons. This was somewhat clouded by charges of immorality when the relationship of Siegmund and Sieglinde was a new discovery. Elizabeth Drexel Lehr has writ- ten (King Lehr and the Gilded Age ) : “I remember my uncle, Anthony Drexel, once holding forth on the subject at a dinner party. . . . ‘There’s going to be a concert next week and I want no child of mine to go to it. Some fool whose name is Dam . . . Dam . . . some kind of bug or other . . . Roach, that’s what it is . . . Walter Damrosch, and he’s going to play the music of that miserable Wagner! None of you go to it, you understand.’ ” 56 The Metropolitan Opera As the novelty of these works wore off, and the prospect of sitting through still another Tristan or Tannhauser was endured with diminishing grace, some of the box-holders were moved to outspoken rebellion. They were particularly outspoken during the performances themselves, with the result that the following notice was posted in the boxes on January 15, 1891: Many complaints having been made to the directors of the Opera House of the annoyance produced by the talking in the boxes during the performance, the Board requests that it be discontinued. By order of the Board of Directors. This crisis was resolved by the return to solvency of Henry Abbey, and the transfer to him of the lease for the purpose of resuming Italian opera (see page 113) . With him came Maurice Grau, with his flair for building casts about such artists as the De Reszkes, Lassalle, Nordica, and Eames. He provided the box- holders with something of the brilliance and charm they ex- pected in an opera house. He was a man to be encouraged. This happy transition had hardly been effected when the stockholders were presented with the ugliest news in the ten-year history of the theater. Most of them learned at second hand, and at a considerable distance from the Metropolitan, that a fire had broken out on the morning of August 27, 1892. It was extin- guished by noon, but not before it had spread from the stage to the auditorium, leaving little more than the basic structure. One by one the elaborate precautions provided to prevent such a catastrophe had been abandoned— a tank of water to feed a primi- tive sprinkler system had been emptied because it froze in winter; a fireproof curtain to prevent a fire on stage from spreading to the auditorium had been hoisted out of use— and the appalling fact emerged that only $60,000 in insurance could be collected against a damage of at least $250,000. In Bar Harbor and Newport the stockholders were incredulous. Was not their building fireproof? They were not aware— as few laymen are, even today— that, in risk circles, a “fireproof” build- ing is merely one of which something— walls and roof— will be left when a fire occurs. In the end, two things determined the fu- House and Home 57 ture: stubborn pride and a considerable appreciation in the value of the land since the building had been constructed. The first factor was inherent in the reaction of Luther Kountze, Henry Marquand, Calvin S. Brice, and Robert Goelet, the second in the statement of broker Henry C. Clews: “The opera property is a good investment. The original cost, building and all, was about $2,000,000. Now the ground alone is worth that much.” In less than a month the solution was worked out. Most of the “new” millionaires had been, in literal fact, burned by the social fire and were willing to leave opera to others. The property would be put up for sale, to be bid in by those whose plans for the future were already formulated. At a cost of $1,425,000— well under Clews’s estimate of the land value alone— the newly formed Met- ropolitan Opera and Real Estate Company acquired the assets of the Metropolitan Opera Company Ltd. When this was distrib- uted among the 70 stockholders, each received $20,000, or not greatly less than the original investment. Membership in the Opera and Real Estate Company was re- stricted to thirty-five — the number of the boxes in the single tier they planned to occupy as owners and social aristocracy. Each member subscribed to 300 shares of stock at a par value of $100 per share ($30,000). Each subscribed an additional $30,000 for purposes of reconstruction. All participated in the distribution of money from the sale, of course; so the requirement from each, in fresh capital, was $40,000. When the property was liquidated in 1940, each of those whose families retained the original 300 shares received $43,200 in cash and bonds. This was not at all an unreasonable recovery on an investment that permitted them to write into the bylaws of the company: “No transfer of stock shall be made except to a person or persons previously approved by the directorate” ( New York Times, March 2, 1926) . For nearly half a century the ownership company was a self-appointed, self-perpetuating judge and jury of what persons were socially acceptable in a city of mounting millions. 3 Millions of persons have lived and died happily in New York since 1892 with no more than minor awareness of such an institu- 58 The Metropolitan Opera tion as the Metropolitan. Some hundreds of thousands of others have been its patrons at one time or another and decided it would be a much better place in which to see and hear opera were there no boxes at all. A few thousand others have doubtless yearned to be box-owners for all the privileges that status conferred; fewer than twenty aspirants realized this ambition in nearly fifty years. It was this power to scrutinize and reject, to include or exclude, that made opera-patrons of non-music-lovers. Whether it was worth $4,500 a year in assessment may be judged from the facts that follow. Of course, one could have “a box at the opera” without being a stockholder— by payment of the charge of the moment. For this purpose, the new owners set aside the second floor grand-tier boxes for whoever chose to lay out the necessary thousands of dollars. But the distinction was clear in the minds of those who made it, if not always realized by the general public. Herbert Satterlee, a Morgan son-in-law, put it clearly in his worshipful biography of that magnifico: “They were all getting rich. Gates was speculating in Wall Street. Judge Moore began to buy fine horses. . . . Converse, Reid and the others invested in large country estates and big houses which were in sharp contrast to the old-fashioned Cragston [the 'modest' ancestral aerie of the Morgans at Highland Falls, New York], Some of these ‘steel mag- nates’ indulged in rented boxes in the Metropolitan Opera House, and their wives and family figured largely in the society columns of the newspapers.” If you “owned,” you were “in”; if you merely “rented,” you were more than out— you were socially nonexistent. Needless to say, those who “rented” swallowed their unhappiness with this caste system, but extended it a bit farther by looking down on those who neither owned nor rented, but merely bought tickets. Some place in the house there was a dividing line between those who looked down on each other and those who looked at the stage, but I have not, in fifteen years of research, been able to de- termine just where it began. Because those who took this seriously at all took it very seri- ously indeed, it might be well to appraise the elements which, surviving the fire, brought themselves into a much tighter align- ment than had previously prevailed. Nineteen of the original House and Home 59 group persisted. Among those who took their $20,000 each and retired were Cyrus Field, Collis P. Huntington, James Harriman, Jay Gould, and William Rockefeller. Those who remained can he grouped into three categories: Vanderbilt and Morgan, as two major factions, and as a minor but powerful source of pres- tige, the leading elements of the old Academy of Music “Knick- erbocker” society: Astor, Belmont, Cutting, and so on. As shown in the adjoining table (page 62), nineteen original stockholders retained their boxes. Of the sixteen new stock- holders, more than half had a decided Morgan or Vanderbilt orientation. There were, to begin with, two boxes in the name of Cornelius Vanderbilt, and W. K. held another. Related by mar- riage were R. T. Wilson, one of whose daughters married a Van- derbilt (Cornelius III) and another Ogden Goelet. W. D. Sloane and H. McKown Twombly, the wives of both of whom were Vanderbilts, shared box 17. Another Vanderbilt was married to W. Seward Webb, who owned box 22. The Morgan line was of another sort. The progeny were fewer, especially in women to be absorbed by other names. But there were numerous Morgan partners, chosen— as both Satterlee and another biographer, John K. Winkler, attest— as much for social acceptability as for business acumen. A sign of favor for a good- looking product of the right school and family would be the gift of a collie from Junius Pierpont’s private kennel. In turn would come an invitation to join the firm, eventually the opportunity to buy a box. God’s will was working well at the second drawing for boxes: first choice went to Morgan and he chose number 35 at the direct center of the Horseshoe. Seventeen Vanderbilts at one side or seventeen Astors to the other might have to turn their heads to observe his arrival, but from his point of eminence he could survey all without effort. In social circles it ranked as the most desirable box, though it was at the greatest distance from the stage. To balance the family of Vanderbilts, Morgan’s friends and business associates included Levi P. Morton (an old friend, a one-time partner, and a Vice President of the United States) in box 16; J. Hood Wright, a Morgan partner, in 21, which was bought and sold only within the firm; G. S. Bowdoin, a Morgan partner, in 27; and Cornelius Bliss, a former partner, in 8. From 6o The Metropolitan Opera the general financial world closely tied to Morgan were George P. Wetmore, banker, Governor of Rhode Island, and eventually a Senator, in 5; George F. Baker in 10; and C. T. Barney, president of the Knickerbocker Trust, in 9. S. O. Babcock, one of Morgan’s earliest friends in New York, held 26. In the new alignment one may note several names identified with the Academy rather than the Metropolitan on the simul- taneous opening night of 1883— J. J. Astor, Perry Belmont, W. Bayard Cutting, A. T. Van Nest. Although they were greatly outnumbered by the other factions, they did include the unques- tionable doyenne of New York Society, Mrs. Caroline Astor. The interest that attaches to the Vanderbilt-Morgan-Astor domina- tion is twofold: first as a permanent restraint against social inter- lopers; second as a governing force in the affairs of the Metro- politan. In the first instance, the influence is more amusing than cen- surable. Those who approached the fort could only invoke the tool that had built it— money in the largest possible quantity, plus a mingling of blood lines that created prestige. Aside from Otto Kahn, who finally acquired box 14 in the 1920’s— after two decades of work on behalf of the institution— there is no indica- tion that any Jew was welcome. By then, in any case, Kahn was a worshipper at St. Thomas's Episcopal Church. Morgan’s standard of acceptability was defined by Satterlee thus: “The people in his social world were of his own kind, and the bankers and business men with whom he came into contact had, for the most part, the same standards of ethics and point of view that he himself had.” Another phrasing of the same thesis is quoted by Winkler, with Maxine Elliott the speaker: “Why, you men in Wall Street are like a lot of cannibals. You devour anything that comes along— if it is edible!” While still a student at Gottingen, Morgan had clearly formu- lated his notion of a woman’s place in a man’s life. Writing to a friend at Harvard, who had confided his love for a girl with thoughts of a career as a singer, the nineteen-year-old Morgan counseled: “Our courses . . . will both be in the mercantile sphere and from this cause it becomes our duty to select for our wives those who, when we go home from our occupations, will ever be ready to make us happy and contented with our homes.” House and Home 61 The Lillian Russells and Maxine Elliotts had their place, but neither in the home nor in the Diamond Horseshoe. As an influence on the artistic course of the Metropolitan the Morgan tie was somewhat more absurd. Although his interest, according to Satterlee, was limited to the “old, familiar, romantic tuneful operas,” he was invariably consulted in policy decisions from 1892 until his death in 1913. “His special favorite,” con- tinues Satterlee, “was ‘II Trovatore.’ He always went when it was given and was very discriminating as to how the different num- bers were sung. . In later years he generally would not go to the opera except on the opening night or for some gala perform- ance. When he had to go, he often took naps in the back of the box.” It was Morgan’s influence, nevertheless, that caused the ban on Salome (in 1907), perhaps in accord with Satterlee’s observa- tion: “He had no use at all for the pictures of impressionists, for ‘modern’ music, or for the writers who dealt with morbid themes or social problems.” It is plain how little such a canon could include Salome. Nevertheless, it was to the Morgan library that the directors were summoned for many important decisions, as were his actual employees when matters of gravity in the finan- cial world merited his personal attention. Not only did Morgan bestride the world of finance with its ramifications in politics, the social scene with its influence on the everyday happiness of thousands more than the “400,” and the little world of Metropolitan Opera. He saw fit, in 1873, to join William E. Dodge and a group of others in organizing the New York Society for the Prevention of Vice, which sought to tell New Yorkers during the next fifty years what they should see, read, and look at. 4 As well as fitting a mental concept of “kind,” it was a physical necessity for the main social currents of the box-holders to flow in the same direction. Taken as a group, the box-holders were people with like interests, who went “on” to the same parties or balls, and had friends— not to mention relations— in common. Each hostess knew whom she would see at the opera of a given evening, reserving for the intermission or dull stretches the neces- sary social planning, small talk, and confidences. THE DIAMOND HORSESHOE IN 1892 62 THE DIAMOND HORSESHOE IN 1892 [ continued] VANDERBILT MORGAN 30* W. C. Whitney marriage (his son Harry Payne Whitney married daughter of No. 31) House and Home 65 66 The Metropolitan Opera For the generation that lived between 1893 an< ^ 1 9 1 3 > the winter’s social life revolved about the Opera as never before or since. From the opening of the Opera or the Horse Show— they exchanged priority from year to year— dated the social round of parties and balls which had for its serious purpose the pattern of coming-out, engagement, and wedding. For those with a proprie- tary interest in the house, it served as the interim point of almost every evening's activity. Dinner over, there was little other diver- sion to occupy the time before appearance at a ten-o’clock ball. As Henry James noted in The American Scene (1907) : “There was nothing, as in London or Paris, to go bn’ to; the 'going on’ is, for the New York aspiration, always the stumbling block. . . . Its presence is felt unmistakably, for instance, in the general ex- travagant insistence on the Opera, which plays its part as the great vessel of social salvation, the comprehensive substitute for all other conceivable vessels.” Even those who were not box-owners participated, vicariously if need be, in the ceremonial procedures. As Mrs. Lehr has writ- ten: “My mother . . . regarded the Opera purely as a social function and never failed to occupy her box [rented] on Monday evenings, like everyone else with any claim to being fashionable. On those nights the house would be crowded, every box in the 'Diamond Horseshoe’ would present the spectacle of two women superbly gowned and bejewelled sitting in the front row, while four men grouped themselves behind.” She does not forget to tell us, too, that Lily Hamersley (later the Duchess of Marl- borough) had the walls of the anteroom to the box “concealed by festoons of orchids.” According to accepted custom, the social leader— in this period Mrs. Astor— would appear at the opera promptly at nine, regard- less of what was being given or when it started. During a con- venient intermission she would “receive,” in order of eminence, her own set, perhaps accompanied by out-of-town or European guests. Rarely, if ever, did she leave her box to visit any other. Not all the visitors, of course, came from other boxes. There were some “accepted” people who chose to be only subscribers, and there was a whole category of young people who did not necessarily have access to a box. Indeed, with the proper costume — tails, white tie, white gloves— and a dollar for standing-room House and Home 67 admission, a well-connected young man could easily find himself a haven in exchange for conversational service during the inter- mission. Often enough Mrs. Astor would have departed by the next intermission. When her place was vacant, others would begin to drift away. Leaving before her was scarcely thinkable, not merely as a violation of protocol, but even more because some bit of byplay might occur that would be the next day’s justification for having spent the previous evening at the opera. The personal aspect of social leadership was reflected in Har- vey O’Connor’s comment in The Astors (New York: Alfred A. Knopf; 1941 ) : “Unfeeling people said Mrs. Astor was intent only on a vulgar display of wealth as she sat, bejewelled, in the Dia- mond Horseshoe. They forgot she was a mother, that she had four daughters and a son, plain of face and mind, who must be married off into the rank suitable to their exalted station in the American aristocracy.” This had been accomplished, and to her satisfaction, when she died, on October 30, 1908, at the age of seventy-seven. The power aspect of social leadership and the contest for rec- ognition as Mrs. Astor’s successor has been touched upon by Mrs. Lehr in her reminiscences. Even in her later years Mrs. Astor commanded the prestige to decide whether a friend’s daughter could marry the man of her choice without jeopardizing social standing. There was no conceivable objection to the man— James Speyer— save the fact that he was a Jew, and none such had ever been invited to an Astor party. Considering the question in all its gravity, and studying the anxious face of the girl (Ellin Dyneley Prince), Mrs. Astor pro- nounced her verdict: “We are all so fond of you. Marry him dear, if you want to. I for one will invite you to my parties, and I think everyone else will do the same.” For Mrs. Astor to “think” a thing was for others to accept it: the shattering precedent was estab- lished. The possible candidates for succession were five: the daughter- in-law of the deceased (Mrs. John Jacob Astor) had heritage, but “no talent for social leadership” (the opinion is Mrs. Lehr’s). For Mrs. Mills, having too many friends was a liability; for Mrs. Oliver H. P. Belmont (a Vanderbilt by a former marriage, and 68 The Metropolitan Opera the mother of Consuelo Vanderbilt), having too many enemies was the same. Mrs. Stuyvesant Fish had supporters, but even they gave up the cause after the famous “monkey dinner.” In collusion with Harry “King” Lehr, society’s most celebrated practical joker, she tendered a formal dinner for an unknown “Prince del Drago.” When the “Prince” turned out to be a monkey in evening dress who was seated at Mrs. Fish’s right for the evening, the guests were hugely entertained. Not so, however, the press, which chided her circle to remember “New York society represents America in the eyes of the foreign world, and we should behave with a becoming sense of dignity.” Not only by elimination but also by attraction the honor came to Mrs. Cornelius Vanderbilt, III, born Grace Wilson, who had a “flair for social intrigue,” says Mrs. Lehr, and “all the quali- ties that make a ruler.” Nearly forty years later her arrival at a Metropolitan opening still carried awe for those who were more impressed by the performance in the boxes than that on the stage. The picture of her arrival at the 1949 opening, shaking a cane at a photographer who “took her” (literally) unaware, is its own commentary on the health of the tradition she represented. Likewise, her opposition to the Kahn-led plans for a new theater (page 24) throws vivid light on the power she could marshal to continue a social tradition, even when it conflicted violently with every sensible consideration of art and economics. 5 In this conflict lies the only compulsion to dwell, now, on the glitter and display that have long since vanished together with those whose pretensions they conveyed. What was necessary to preserve the auditorium as the home for a social circle was in- variably done; what was necessary to adapt it to house an artistic endeavor adequately was never done. The reconstruction after the fire provided a scheme in which the walls were cream-colored. Although this proved to be dis- advantageous for the favorable display of gowns and jewelry, it was suffered until 1903, when Heinrich Conried’s plan to present Parsifal made some primitive stage machinery mandatory. At a cost of $150,000, the overhauling of the stage (counterweights to fly scenery were introduced, and a new stage floor with traps for House and Home 69 the disappearance of Klingsor’s castle was provided) was ex- tended to include redecoration of the auditorium in the gold and deep maroon (the Vanderbilt house color) which has now be- come traditional. Also, for the first time, a foyer was created on the grand-tier floor for the convenience of those who did not hold boxes. Previously they had had no gathering-place during the intermissions except the drafty lobbies. At the same time the present proscenium arch, with the front of the stage cut back on a line with it, was constructed, with panels bearing the names of Mozart, Verdi, Wagner, Beethoven, Gluck, and Gounod. Formerly the base of the pillars at either side had contained doors from which the performers could emerge for bows. These were closed up, and ornamental bases for the pillars created in their places. Another change of admin- istration, in 1908, brought some further minor changes in the theater— particularly the removal of a block of seats at either side of the orchestra pit, which was thus widened to its present dimen- sions. Then, finally, the elevators woefully needed to carry pa- trons to the lofty balcony and family circle were installed. There were no further alterations in the physical plant of the Metropolitan until the legally decreed improvements of 1934. Such a necessary piece of equipment as a cyclorama (a canvas hanging on which light can be thrown to suggest sky or distance) was lacking until the Opera Guild raised the money to buy it in 1936. All the worth-while improvements since have been under- written by public contributions. Despite this evidence of limited concern about the Metropoli- tan as an opera house, there was never any hesitation on the part of the box-holders to put forth the kind of self-justification dearly beloved by the rich when their motives are questioned. As we have seen, they divorced themselves as quickly as possible from the problem of presenting opera in New York. It is equally evi- dent that they did not strain their resources to make the Metro- politan a theater the city could be proud of. Nevertheless, in 1929, when some talk of sale and removal brought up a problem of new capital for rebuilding, a representative of the Opera and Real Estate Company told a reporter for the Herald Tribune : “The directors of the Metropolitan Opera and Real Estate Company have contributed more than $5,000,000 in thirty-five years to 4 : <5 4 1 yo The Metropolitan Opera keep the opera going. Opera is not a paying business. It is a dona- tion to the public. Every year an assessment has to be made to continue to give opera in New York. The directors are reluctant to take a step which would increase this assessment.” It is an elementary principle of society that membership in any club carries with it an assessment for maintenance. For the box- owners, the Metropolitan was essentially a club, if perhaps one that had outlived its time of utility. The amount of $5,000,000 when properly apportioned, shows a total assessment in the pe- riod mentioned of $142,857 per box. For this the box-holder re- ceived the use of six seats for every performance of opera given. Taking the very moderate average of 78 performances a season (in some there were as many as 176), the cost per box per per- formance was $52.32. Each of the six seats thus cost the box- holders $8.72, or very little more than the going price of those on the orchestra floor. There is ample evidence, however, that, rather than being out of pocket by payment of the assessment— assuming that neither the prestige of patronage nor the enjoyment of music was ade- quate compensation— some box-holders made a financial profit on their holdings, especially in the prosperous days of the 1920's. During a tax investigation by the government of Miss Georgine Iselin’s affairs in 1926, the Times reported the following facts: In the season of 1920-21, Miss Iselin sub-leased her box for 47 performances, for a total return of $9,525. Her assessment was the usual $4,500. She thus made a profit of $5,025, and had the use of the box free for the other 8o-odd performances. The prices she charged were broken down as follows: Opening night 1 1 Mondays 11 other Mondays 23 Fridays Prince of Wales gala $550 $275 each ($3,025) $200 each ($2,200) $150 each ($3,450) $300 Considering both the high and the low quotations, Miss Iselin received the average sum of $3377 per seat for what cost her $8.72. As the practice of subleasing was by this time quite general, it is possible that others made deals to their advantage, even if one doubts that they were quite as venal as Miss Iselin. If proper House and Home 7 1 accounting were made to the government, only the lessor and the lessee needed to know of the money that changed hands. Another aspect of the assessment as a “contribution” may he derived from a consideration of prevailing practice when boxes were sold, as they were on some twenty occasions between 1892 and the liquidation of 1940. Whether people are rich because they are financially minded or financially minded because they are rich is a riddle to which one who is neither cannot provide the answer. But the theory involved in such sales may be de- duced from the comment accompanying the first discussion I can trace. (The books of the Opera and Real Estate Company were never open to the public, and they were privately disposed of after the sale.) This was in 1903, and a price of $100,000 was mentioned. Although this would seem a reasonable return for an investment of $60,000 ten years before, the owner was asking $120,000. Apparently $120,000 was a commonly held figure, for the subleasing rate at this time was $6,000 per half season— or interest at five per cent on the $120,000 supposedly tied up in a box. When the first recorded transactions occurred in 1913, the price, for publication, was $120,000. The properties that changed hands were box 26, purchased by William Ross Proctor from the S. O. Babcock estate, and box 33, purchased by Henry E. Hoyt from the estate of Thomas Hitchcock. In 1921, in an affidavit filed in connection with the appraisal of the Henry Clews estate, Frank Dodd, acting for the Opera and Real Estate Company, specified the value of the 10,500 shares in the company to be $3,977,000, or $378.76 each. Presumably this reflected the increased value of the site. Thus a box representing 300 shares of stock would have been worth $113,628. That amounts as high as $200,000 were reported to have been paid during the 1920’s indicates the premium that the sellers were able to place on their property. Between 191 3 and 1924 there were five further sales. Box 34 passed from Heber R. Bishop to James R. Haggin; box 11, origi- nally owned by Perry Belmont, was purchased by Archer M. Huntington and Arthur Curtiss James jointly; box 19 was sold by the estate of Henry I. Barbey to Henry C. Frick, whose estate sold it to Judge Elbert H. Gary in 1924 at a quoted price of $200,000. In the same period Otto Kahn finally became a box-holder by •p The Metropolitan Opera acquiring number 14, originally owned by Mrs. George Henry Warren. During the boom period of 1924-7 there were transactions almost yearly. In 1925 Johnson L. Redmond (who had recently mar ried the niece of G. G. Haven, a box-holder for many years) purchased a one-fourth interest in box 29. In the same year box number n, held by the estate of August Belmont (it was origi- nally the property of Perry Belmont) , was purchased by Paul H. Helm, president of the General Baking Company. Apparently he was not happy with it, for he sold it the following year to Robert S. Brewster. Two Vanderbilts chose an advantageous moment to sell. Har- old Vanderbilt’s number 6 went to Frazier Jelke in 1926, and the jointly held number 7 (Mrs. H. McKown Twombly and Mrs. Henry White were the owners) was acquired by H. E. Manville in 1927. Both transactions had their interest, for Jelke paid $200,000, and fought vigorously to recover an appreciable amount of it when the liquidation occurred in 1940 (see page 42). The documentation of the Manville purchase included the fact that J. Pierpont Morgan had recently arranged the investment of $7,000,000 in the Johns-Manville corporation. This sign of Morgan “influence” was underscored when the estate of H. P. Davison, a past Morgan partner, disposed of a half interest in box 21 to Charles R. Steele, a current partner. In com- menting, casually, on the transfer of ownership from one member of the firm to another. Secretary Dodd of the Opera and Real Estate Company cast a beam of light on the thinking that gov- erned the choice of “eligibles.” “It is more difficult,” he said, “to find a purchaser acceptable to the Board . for boxes in the central portion of the sides of the opera house than for those near the stage or in the rear.” The unconscious humor of this is both overpowering and sad- dening. Not only, then, did a chasm separate owners from renters and lessees, but even greater chasms within the ownership sepa- rated the hardy elite from the naked aspiring. Hidden in their boxes “near the stage or in the rear,” the ones who had been granted mere squatters’ rights found themselves forced to accept an inferior status. That they were labeled so, publicly, shows how secure the core of the inner circle felt itself. House and Home 73 At the same time it underscores fully the fact that lack of pur- chasers was not the whole, or the real, reason why almost half the boxes were held by estates when the collapse came. As the older investors died, the boxes on the market multiplied not alone in number, but also in desirability. If a Morgan partner re- jected, as neighbor, an interloper from Milwaukee, the estate holding the “desirable” box continued to hold it, while resisting payment of the annual assessment. In the end it was the dead hand of the dead past that stifled the corporate life and trans- ferred the burden to the public. 6 The panorama of social change which accompanied the lives and deaths of the Metropolitan’s founders can be observed acutely in the successive openings, from 1892 on. At first every night was fashionable, and society went to the opera regularly when it was “in season.” Soon enough, however, the season grew so long, the schedule so onerous, that, by common agreement one evening a week was set aside as “fashionable.” To judge from the Tribune of December 8, 1894, it was not immediately Monday: “It seems to be the policy of the Metro- politan management to reserve the old-fashioned Italian reper- tory for the most fashionable night of the week, that is, Friday.” The trend to Monday, if gradual, was also logical. It invariably served to open the season, and thus was a ritual of high degree; and conflicting social obligations of an evening-long character were more likely to occur in the middle or latter part of the week. By the time Conried became director in 1903, the custom was firm. A stipulation of his lease was that the number of Wagner operas presented on Monday should not exceed four. Some might consider this expressive of a continuing prejudice against the “immorality” of Wagner’s works or their musical weight. But there was just as strong or stronger objection to the number of dimly lit scenes they contained, which were prejudicial to dis- play or scrutiny of a fashionable wardrobe and its gems. As the concentration on Monday determined one pattern of Metropolitan activity, so it had a considerable influence on an- other— the custom of subleasing. If “everybody” went on Mon- day, there was little reason to be there when “nobody” went. 74 The Metropolitan Opera Hence a greatly widened circle of persons had the use of the boxes on the less fashionable nights, for a price. In the twenty or so years prior to World War I, it was often confined to a fam- ily circle, or to accommodate a friend whose business took him to Europe for the winter. Thereafter— as the instance of Miss Iselin shows (page 70)— it could be pursued as a profitable avocation, at whatever rates the market would bear. By the 1920’s the society pattern had so expanded that its journalistic historians referred not to the traditional grmd.es dames, but to the “Thursday night” hostess in this box or the “Friday night” hostess in another. Typical reportage (Town Topics, December 3, 1923) was: “Mrs. William A. M. Burden was the hostess in the White-Twombly box, and she did not escape the scrutiny of the opera glass battalion, for she wore the longest and most magnificent chain of diamonds seen in the par- terre for several years.” One would have to be well versed in genealogy to know that Messrs. Burden, White, and Twombly were all married to members of the Vanderbilt family. Each opening, however, as the symbol of a new beginning, an augury of things to come, has its enduring interest. The second gala Faust, on November 26, 1893, may be accepted as the first, historically, of the modern era. In view of the smaller number of owned boxes, there was an understandable emphasis on who occupied them. It is not improbable that the jewels thus dis- played cost more than the financing of the reconstruction. The social life of New York as reflected at the Metropolitan marked an occasion of occasions on February 25, 1902, when Prince Henry of Prussia, brother of the Kaiser, was entertained. The tide of American money engulfing foreign titles was running high, with Consuelo Vanderbilt’s marriage to the ninth Duke of Marlborough a recent memory, and such other unions as a Whit- ney with the Baron Queensborough, a Gould with Count Boni di Castellane, and a Morton (daughter of Levi P.) with the Due de Valengay et de Sagan ushering in “the century of the common man.” Elaborate decorations inside and outside were matched by a spectacular program, for an admission charge of thirty dollars a seat. The lower floors were well filled, but both the balcony and the family circle were nearly one-third empty. Most members of House and Home 75 the fashionable audience timed their arrival to coincide with that of the royal party, at nine o’clock. Thus there were less than one thousand people in the theater when a series of acts from various operas began at eight. Actually, the royal party did not arrive until 9.40 and departed well before the program was completed. When many in the theater did likewise, Marcella Sembrich de- cided that her dignity had been affronted and refused to appear in the first act of La Traviata. Among the dignitaries who came and went to strains of Wagner and Verdi were Admiral von Tir- pitz (some of those present had reason to remember him bitterly a decade later). Mayor Seth Low, Chauncey Depew, and Rear- Admiral Robley Evans (a hero of the recently concluded Spanish- American War). A custom of long duration was introduced on November 23, 1903, when Enrico Caruso made his debut in Rigoletto. It was also the occasion for the first viewing of the newly decorated auditorium. Caruso was accepted with applause, but Carrere and Hastings, who had supervised the redecoration, received a letter of commendation from the board of directors of the Real Estate and Opera Company. Caruso openings were invariable thereafter, save for November 26, 1906, when Geraldine Farrar made her debut in Romeo. From 1908, when Aida on November 16 also brought Emmy Destinn, they were Caruso-Toscanini openings, except in the 1912-13 season, when other affairs kept the conductor abroad until midseason. Society considered the 1908 historic for the ab- sence from the Diamond Horseshoe for the first time of any mem- ber of the Astor family. (They were mourning the late Caroline, who had died shortly before.) The music-minded did not con- sider the Aida for this reason dull. La Gioconda was the choice for 1909, Armide for 1910, Aida again for 1911. With Toscanini absent, the 1912 audience had to content itself with Manon Lescaut sung by Caruso, Scotti, and a new soprano, Lucrezia Bori. For the Maestro’s next opening— La Gioconda again— 1913 provided "the largest audience ever in the house” on a first night and a parterre “ablaze with jewels.” The last Toscanini opening was on November 16, 1914, when he conducted a performance of Un Ballo in maschera with Caruso, Destinn, Homer, Matzenauer, and Amato. Thencefor- 7 6 The Metropolitan Opera ward, till his death, Caruso carried the burden himself. For the 1915 opening ( Samson et Dalila ) the audience began to gather at three in the afternoon, and standing room went in twenty minutes. While seeking new words to describe the splendor of the audience, the Times observed: “Paquin, Worth and Poiret were in their glory.” Les Picheurs de perles was elected for November 13, 1916, then the third Caruso Aida on November 12, 1917, and Samson et Dalila once more on November 11, 1918. The associa- tions of the last date made for jubilation on the stage as well as in the house. At the end of the first act the curtain was raised amid cheers for the sight of Allied banners in the hands of the principals, while all the choristers fluttered small American flags. The absence of Wagner during the war years blemished no opening, for his works were not considered suitable by Gatti. In any case, the Tosca that opened the 1919 season found society merely rehearsing for the Prince of Wales gala the following evening, November 18. The Prince, or Edward VIII, or the Duke of Windsor, as one prefers, was met by Otto Kahn and Clarence Mackay, who escorted him to the Morgan box. Viscount Grey, Assistant Secretary of War William Philips, and Admiral Halsey (a predecessor of the lately famous “Bull” ) were also in the box. During the intermission Edward encountered General John J. Pershing in the corridor and invited him to spend the remainder of the evening as his guest. Mrs. Grover Whalen and Mrs. Rod- man Wanamaker were similarly honored. The advent of the 1920’s brought a new factor in the musical world to rub some of the social luster from the Metropolitan. In four weeks of this winter there were as many orchestral concerts as there had been in three months a decade before. Such per- sonalities as Mengelberg and Stokowski, Koussevitzky and Toscanini brought into being a “Philharmonic crowd,” a “Phila- delphia crowd” (the Boston audience could under no circum- stances be called a “crowd” ) , which competed, at least, with the prestige of the opera’s box-holders. Otto Kahn once told a col- league of mine that the fault for this was with the press, for making heroes of the “prima donna” conductors. Even the press could not persuade a prominent orchestra, resident or visiting, to venture a Monday-night series. For his last opening, on November 15, 1920, Caruso in La House and Home 77 Juive was not in his best voice (see page 339), but only the hyper- critical complained. Barely a month later (December 24), he sang on this stage for the last time, but it is scarcely credible that more than thirty years have elapsed, so vivid is the image he left, even with many who never saw him. With his unquestionably premier singer and most valuable asset gone, Gatti had a new and perplexing problem to handle. No longer was there the automatic opening choice for the indis- putable lion; all the beasts of the musical jungle now clamored for recognition. Usually it went, by courtesy, to a female of the species, to Galli-Curci on November 14, 1921 (La Traviata), Jeritza in Tosca in 1922, Jeritza in Thais in 1923. Whether Reth- berg or Martinelli dominated the Aida that opened the 1924 season is questionable, though Tullio Serafin, who made his debut that night, would doubtless contend that he did. A new pattern was established with his arrival, for he conducted every opening thereafter until 1934, when he was no longer with the company. Ponselle and La Gioconda served in 1925, Ponselle and La Vestale in 1926. The glittering performance of Turandot on October 31, 1927 might have marked the end of an era, had the movement to Fifty-seventh Street proceeded by Kahn’s timetable. As it did not, the opening, with Jeritza and Lauri-Volpi, may be considered his- toric only because smoke from the flash-powder used to photo- graph arriving celebrities drifted into the theater, and a fire alarm was turned in. Some regretted that the engines, on arrival, were not needed. Gatti’s most daring choice of an opening was doubtless L’A more dei tre re with Ponselle, Martinelli, Pinza, and Didur on October 29, 1928. Fortunately the date of the next opening was October 28, 1929, rather than the 29th of the famous stock- market crash. The house was dark on that Tuesday, Manon Lescaut with Bori on the previous evening repeating the role of her debut in 1912. Aida was again chosen for 1930 (Maria Muller and Martinelli), with an audience that showed little in- fluence of the deepening depression. In the years that followed, the inevitably “brilliant” opening night did not guarantee a successful season. Those who came when the photographers were present found reason to be else- ■78 The Metropolitan Opera where in the weeks to come. Gradually, the haut monde had been outnumbered by the smart set, the bon ton, or whatever prevailed in a given decade. When it became “cafe society,” its luster was more artificial than real. Gatti’s losing year of 1931-2 opened on November 2 with a Ponselle, De Luca, Lauri-Volpi Traviata. It was the last for half a dozen years to open at the accustomed early date, for two months had been eliminated from the schedule for 1932, which began on November 22 with Tibbett in Simon Boccanegra. To honor the beginning of Gatti’s twenty-fifth year, Arturo Toscanini was his guest. By 1933, when the season began on December 26, it was clear that the old society function of the opening had vanished. What- ever the merits of the performance of Peter Ibbetson, with Bori, Tibbett, and Johnson, it was clear that no “season” (other than opera) could wait so long to begin. Staunch to the end, Gatti began his last season, on December 22, 1934, as he had his first, with Aida. Rethberg, Martinelli, and Tibbett were as close as he could provide to the Destinn, Caruso, and Scotti of old. It was a major task in readjustment to reverse the trend of late openings and short seasons. How Edward Johnson approached the problem is discussed elsewhere (see page 475 ) . In the present context it is sufficient to say that two more December openings —in 1935 on the 16th it was La Traviata with Bori, Crooks, and Tibbett; in 1936 on the 26th it was Samson, with Wetter- gren, Maison, and Pinza— were to pass before November be- came feasible again. In 1937 it was more a technicality than an accomplished fact, the season opening on November 29 with Flagstad, Melchior, and Thorborg in Tristan. It moved back to the 21st in 1938, and it was middle-late November through the Johnson years save for 1940, when Un Ballo in maschera opened on December 2. In the light of after events, the opening of the 1939 season was heavy with symbolism. Formal agreement on the mechanism of liquidation was yet to be reached, but it was accepted as fact that November 27, 1939 would be the last time the Horseshoe would have the homogeneous character of old. Whatever interest there was in this fact or in the performance of Simon Boccanegra was House and Home 79 dimmed by the antics of an over-extraverted Texan named Richard A. Knight, who decided to liven the scene by cartwheel- ing through the bar, tails flying. When the eager photographers followed him to the street, he obliged with a handstand (top-hatted) in front of a Metropoli- tan signboard. Thus was ushered in an era of rowdy, noisy, push- ing, impolite, publicity-seeking exhibitionists, of whom the hun- dred or two worst make their seasonal appearance at the Metro- politan on this one occasion alone. On this November 29, 1939, the boxes showed the following terminal occupants. Asterisks indicate those finally held in whole or part by estates. 1893-4 1 939"4° 1. Ogden Goelet 1. Robert Goelet Duke of Roxburghe 2. A. D. Juilliard 2. F. A. Juilliard* E. Pennington Pearson (Fridays) 3. R. T. Wilson 3. Mrs. Cornelius Vanderbilt III Mrs. Orme Wilson 4. Cornelius Vanderbilt 4. Robert S. Brewster Mrs. O. G. Jennings ( even Mondays, odd Fri- days) 5. George P. Wetmore 5. George P. Wetmore* Mrs. Harold Brown 6. W. K. Vanderbilt 6. Frazier Jelke 7. J. J. Astor 7. Vincent Astor 8o The Metropolitan Opera 1893-4 8. Cornelius Bliss McC. D. Borden 9. C. T. Barney 10. George F. Baker H. C. Fahnestock 11. Perry Belmont 12. Henry Clews 1 3. Edward Cooper H. T. Sloane 14. Mrs. George H. Warren 15. Adrian Iselin 16. Levi P. Morton George Bliss 17. W. D. Sloane H. McK. Twombly 1939-4° 8. C. N. Bliss Bertram H. Borden Gen. Howard S. Borden Cornelius W. Dresselhuys (j Mondays , opening night) 9. E. H. Harriman* 10. George F. Baker* Mrs. John Hubbard 11. Archer M. Huntington Arthur Curtiss James 12. James B. Clews* Henry Clews* 13. Myron Taylor George Henry Warren 14. Otto H. Kahn* Mrs. Christian R. Holmes (Mondays, opening night) 15. Miss Iselin Mrs. Watts Sherman 16. William Willis Reese Mrs. Walter P. Bliss Joseph E. Davies (opening night) 17. H. Edward Manville House and Home 81 1 89 3-4 18. Calvin S. Brice 1 9 39-40 18. Miss Helen 0 . Brice Winthrop W. Aldrich Sheldon Whitehouse Arnold Whitridge Mrs. Marius de Brabant (odd Mondays, opening night) 19. Mrs. H. I. Barbey 19. Elbert H. Gary* 20. D. O. Mills 20. Elisabeth Mills Reid* Ogden L. Mills* 21. J. Hood Wright 21. Charles Steele* Mrs. Herbert Satterlee Mrs. Morgan Hamilton 22. W. Seward Webb 22. Mrs. W. Seward Webb* Mrs. }. Watson Webb (Mondays, matinees, opening night) Mrs. David S. Gamble 23. E. T. Gerry 23. Robert L. Gerry Peter G. Gerry Miss Angelica L. Gerry Mabel Drury* Miss Juliana Cutting (matinees) Miss Cottone (matinees) 24. Robert Goelet 24. Robert Walton Goelet Mrs. Henry Morgan Til- ford (Mondays, opening night) 82 The Metropolitan Opera 1893-4 25. G. G. Haven 1939-4° 25. G. G. Haven* Forsyth Wickes John Parsons* Mrs. James Lees Laidlaw Mrs. John C. Hughes Mrs. T. J. Mumford 26. S. O. Babcock 27. G. S. Bowdoin Charles Lanier 26. Mrs. Vernon H. Brown William Ross Proctor J. Allen Townsend 27. Mrs. John T. Pratt R. Fulton Cutting* 28. W. Bayard Cutting 28. Mrs. W. Bayard Cutting 29. A. T. Van Nest 29. R. V. N. Gambrill Mrs. Johnson L. Redmond Mrs. Arthur Little 30. W. C. Whitney 31. Cornelius Vanderbilt 32. Luther Kountze 30. H. P. Whitney* Mrs. Francis P. Garvan 31. Alice G. Vanderbilt* 32. Henry Walters* de Lancey Kountze Grafton Minot Mrs. Beverly Bogart (opening night, odd Mondays, matinees) G. Lauder Greenway (odd Wednesdays ) Hoyt A. Moore (part Fridays) House and Home 83 1893-4 1 939 ~ 4 ° 33. Thomas Hitchcock 33. G. Beekman Hoppin E. Farrar Bateson 34. Heber R. Bishop 34. James B. Haggin* 35. J. P. Morgan 35. J. P. Morgan It is of this group that Robert Goelet in his memoirs, The Old Order Changeth (1940) wrote: “ ‘The old order chahgeth, yield- ing place to new.’ But for those who follow, lest they forget, let it be recorded that each individual family which took part in the construction of the original opera house and retained its box ever since . . . has contributed to the date of this writing upwards of $312,000 to the support of opera in New York in return for the privilege of occupying a box.” These figures extend those previously cited by Dodd (page 71 ) from the thirty-five-year history of the Metropolitan Opera and Real Estate Company (in 1927) to the whole fifty-eight-year history of the house itself ( 1940) . Subtracting the sum of $43,200 accepted as settlement in the liquidation, the net amount is $268,000, or $4,633 per year. In recalling her Newport days, Elizabeth Drexel Lehr wrote: “The line of sumptuous villas— the ‘cottages’ as they were ironi- cally called by their inhabitants— which stretched the length of Bellevue Avenue along the cliffs and over Ochre Point, was New- port’s glory. . . . One splendid villa after another, each owned by men whose names made history in the world of finance, who thought nothing of spending ten million dollars for a house in which they lived for six weeks in a year. . . . Among them was ‘Ochre Court’ where Mrs. Ogden Goelet, who was an enormously rich widow, had more suitors than she could count, lived in an atmosphere of luxury and magnificence. . I remember Mrs. Pembroke Jones telling me that she always set aside $300,000 at the beginning of every Newport season for entertainment.” For another view of the same circle, let us consult Dixon Wecter’s The Saga of American Society (New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons; 1937): “Of even greater social lustre are the Goelets, whose name is pronounced with no Gallic frills. They 84 The Metropolitan Opera derive from Peter Goelet, ironmonger during and after the revo- lution, who also had the good judgment to buy several acres on what were then the northern fringes of the young city. . . . These Goelets became a by-word for parsimony, and transmitted their habits to the third generation— even though from 1850 to 1870 with the great migration uptown, their tract of land reached from the present Union Square to 47th Street and Fifth Avenue and advanced their fortune well over a hundred million. . . . They at last welcomed the social tradition, ordered steam yachts, sents their sons to Harvard, and began to entertain at Newport.” What was that sum again, Mrs. Lehr? $300,000 in one year for upkeep of opera? $312,000 in fifty-eight years for summer en- tertainment? Or was it the other way round? Who kept up with what Joneses? Was the hundred million exhausted by the steam yachts or by the $4,633 per year for a box assessment? Think of what these people might have done had they really cared about opera. 7 In the decade after the sale, there was an attempt, though a gradu- ally declining one, to keep the material inheritance of the Met- ropolitan alive by allusion to the cherished names that had meant so much in the past. In the immediate aftermath of the sale, the opening of the 1940 season with Un Ballo in maschera, there was a strong showing of Vanderbilt, Astor, Bliss, Goelet, Whitney, and Cutting names among subscribers for boxes. Single series were the rule, Monday the preference. Mrs. Vanderbilt was unique in retaining her box for all performances in this year and for several thereafter. Absent from any participation were J. P. Morgan, H. Edward Manville, Frazier Jelke, and such former Metropolitan names as Clews, Harriman, and Baker. The Morgan box, for Mondays, passed to Thomas J. Watson. Among those who moved in to fill the vacuum that the nature of press photographers abhorred was Mrs. George Washington Kavanaugh, encrusted with jewels. It was this woman who in- sisted on a full display of her valuables at the first opening after Pearl Harbor, in the fall of 1942. Most of those at the per- formance of La Fille du Regiment with Lily Pons on November 23 accepted a blackout on such ostentation. But in characteristic House and Home 85 fashion Mrs. Kavanaugh stifled criticism by saying: “I'm not un- feeling, but what shall we do with these things if we don’t wear them?” The surety company could have told her, especially when she chose to appear for the 1946 opening in all her mineral glory and managed to lose one of her numerous diamond bracelets. (It was found and returned to her. ) In the next year she permitted a photographer to snap her counting her bracelets as she entered the theater, perhaps inspir- ing a rival to outdo him by persuading the aged Mrs. Betty Hen- derson to be pictured with her leg resting on a table. As a result of the more blatant views of society at play, George A. Sloan, chairman of the Metropolitan’s board of direc- tors, issued a statement declaring his concern about “certain news photographs.” He deplored that they had been reproduced “in some cities abroad, including Moscow.” This nervous shudder did not affront the photographers, long used to being insulted after the fact. It would have been far more effective to confine the photographers to the outside lobby— as was customary prior to 1944— rather than permitting them the freedom of the bar, whose name. Sherry’s, has nothing to do with that mild beverage. In part, the concentration of attention elsewhere than on the stage at these openings was a consequence of the limited interest of the musical fare provided. In 1941, on December 2, it was Mozart’s Nozze di Figaro, the first time a score by this composer had served for ceremonial purposes at the Metropolitan. The war- time openings of 1942, 1943, and 1944 were much more subdued —save for Mrs. Kavanaugh— than the counterparts of 1917-18. New York was considered a vulnerable area, with blacked-out electric signs and blue-lit theater marquees as the dulled evidence of a world at war. Following La Fille du regiment in 1942, Boris Godunov was chosen in 1943 to observe the Diamond Jubilee of the building. There was little that was jubilant in the performance of November 22, however. As a tribute to what the Times called “the gallantry and heroism of the Soviet Union’s fighting forces and people,” it earned a transoceanic greeting from Dmitri Shostakovich, whose fervor was not echoed when he came to this country a few years later. Faust was chosen for the opening on November 28, 1944, and Lohengrin for November 26, 1945, when Miss Margaret Truman 86 The Metropolitan Opera attracted some attention, and Mrs. Vanderbilt’s reappearance was noted approvingly. For the first time the opening was broad- cast. With Mrs. Kavanaugh on November 12, 1946 when she ap- peared for Lakme were two bodyguards. The drab Ballo in mas- chera of the 1947 opening had the front-page consequences noted previously (page 85), a forewarning of what was to happen on November 30, 1948, when the opening Otello was televised for the first time. This provided a new field of exhibitionism for those who craved the notoriety of being looked at by people they would never look at in return. The cameras were also present when the last Johnson season opened on November 21, 1949 with Der Rosenkavalier. The viewers were told what dressmakers were responsible for the more showy creations; those in the theater could only guess. Those who found the disorder and display of these openings a plague on both house and home found a reminder of their origin in the news stories detailing the death of the land-standing Knight on January 10, 1949. Reciting the glories of a career that had included disbarment from the law and kidnaping his own child from his wife to compel her to stop a divorce suit against him, some accounts related the reactions of the Metropolitan’s press representative, Frank A. Wenker, when his original drunken display was pictured in 1939. “Well,” said Wenker, “he walked away with the show, didn’t he? That’s good enough for us.” Di- rector Johnson, he added, “laughed until his sides hurt.” In a commentary on the 1949 opening, I proposed (the New York Sun, November 22, 1949) setting aside the first perform- ance of the season as a benefit for the institution, at raised prices, 1 letting those who insist on making a spectacle of themselves pay the piper as well. It had ceased to be a part of anything— social life or artistic record. The artistic work of the season could begin the next night, as the artistic portion of this record now begins. 1 Such a policy was instituted by Rudolf Bing for the beginning of his first season as director on November 6, 1950. He made the professional’s improvement on the amateur’s suggestion by combining the opening with two other galas in a package of “three firsts” at a total of $60 per orchestra seat. Operas and Artists **§)) 8 9 ((£*» CHAPTER III 1. THE METROPOLITAN OPERA AND REAL ESTATE COMPANY THE HENRY ABBEY OPERA COMPANY 1883-1884 ' | T he company that Henry Abbey brought together to open the first season of the Metropolitan’s long history had more to do | with the past of opera in New York than with its future. Accord- j ing to custom, it gave all its performances— whether the work was Faust, Lohengrin, or Carmen— in Italian. The nominal prima donna was Christine Nilsson, who sang Margherita* in the open- ing Faust on October 22, 1883. In the cast with her were Italo Campanini as Faust,* Franco Novara as Mephistopheles,* Giu- seppe del Puente as Valentino,* and Sofia Scalchi as Siebel.* Augusto Vianesi, a maestro as well known in London as in Italy, conducted. Of rather more enduring consequence was the debut on the second night, October 24, of Marcella Sembrich as Lucia,* with Campanini as Edgardo,* in Donizetti’s Lucia di Lammermoor. Only twenty-five years old, and with her debut in London but a few years behind her, Sembrich was characterized by H. E. Kreh- biel in the Tribune as: “A lovely singer [with] nearly all the graces of beautiful singing in the old Italian sense.” Circumstances pre- vented her from reappearing in New York until 1898, but she was, for the whole of the decade thereafter, one of the great fa- vorites of the Metropolitan public. Among other roles sung by Sembrich in her first season were Elvira* in I Puritani on October 30, Violetta* in La Traviata on November 6, Amina* in La Sonnambula on the 1 5th, Gilda* in Rigoletto on the 17th, Rosina* in II Barbiere on the 23rd, and * The symbol * indicates that the role so marked was sung on this date for the first time at the Metropolitan by the artist named. Ur. .? tfj 90 The Metropolitan Opera Zerlina* in Don Giovanni on the 29th. The last of these marked the first performance of a Mozart score in the Metropolitan. For the time the cast was outstanding: Nilsson (Elvira*), Emma Fursch-Madi (Donna Anna*), Giuseppe Kaschmann (Don Gio- vanni*), Giovanni Mirabella (Leporello*), and Roberto Stagno (Ottavio*), with Vianesi conducting. Whatever the quality of the singing, the standard of conduct- ing and orchestral playing may be judged from the comment by Krehbiel that “the instrumentalists made a sad mess of the or- chestral score.” On an occasion when Sembrich sang “Gli angui d’infemo” (from The Magic Flute) during the lesson scene of II Barbiere, the report read: “Mme. Sembrich [ended] a dazzling feat of vocalization to the discordant scrapings of a half dozen fiddlers.” Perhaps Abbey was getting no more from his orchestra than he paid for. Vianesi recruited the players in Italy, Leipzig, and London, sixty-five of the eighty-odd from Venice and Naples. The pay scale ranged from one hundred to one hundred and fifty dollars a month, less than their equivalents of today receive per week. On the other hand, such stars as Nilsson received one thousand dollars a night, vastly more, by comparative standards —even if the figure is the same— than the Flagstads and Ponses of the present. Another young musician who, like Sembrich, was to leave a mark on later New York music-making was Cleofonte Campa- nini, younger brother of the tenor star Italo. At twenty-three he was but a once-a-week substitute for Vianesi. His steady progress through touring companies dominated by his famous brother led him eventually to musical direction of the Hammerstein com- pany and then to the rank of impresario in Chicago. During the Hammerstein period (1906-10) he won the kind of commenda- tion usually associated in Italian opera with Arturo Toscanini— who was engaged, within a year or so, to give the Metropolitan what was so greatly admired at Hammerstein's Manhattan Opera House. The single unfamiliar work of the first Metropolitan season was the perpetually revived, but rarely vivified La Gioconda of Ponchielli, on December 20. The work was prepared in nine days, and provided a scenic spectacle regarded by the contemporary Operas and Artists, 1883-1884 91 press as “without precedent” on the American stage. Nilsson was the first Gioconda,* with Fursch-Madi as Laura Adorno,* Scalchi as La Cieca,* Stagno as Grimaldo,* Del Puente as Bamaba,* and Novara as Alvise Badoero.* Malvina Cavalazzi had the honor of leading the first “Dance of the Hours.” The work was given three times later, then not again until 1903. Otherwise, the repertory was largely that of the Academy of Music, if more spaciously mounted on the expanse of the Met- ropolitan stage. Don Giovanni and Lohengrin (with Nilsson and Campanini) were the most ambitious operas musically. Robert de Viable of Meyerbeer and I Puritani of Bellini exploited the vocal virtuosity in the small company— twenty men and twelve women— which called for the kind of versatility shown by Zelia Trebelli’s range from Carmen to Nancy in Martha, or Martha and Pantalis in Mefistofele. Mapleson’s serious effort to keep his Academy of Music pa- trons adequately entertained was expressed by a company boast- ing not only Etelka Gerster, who appeared in the opening La Sonnambula, which shared the night of October 23, with the Metropolitan’s Faust, but also Adelina Patti. This illustrious soprano returned to New York in Rossini’s La Gazza ladra on November 10, singing thereafter in two extreme varieties of Verdi —La Traviata and Aida. The Ricci brothers’ Crispino e la comare occupied her on several occasions, with an invariable afterpiece— a performance of Arditi’s II Bacio, with the composer conducting. She was also heard in Rossini’s Semiramide, Meyer- beer’s Les Huguenots, and Gounod’s Romeo (all in Italian). One of the notable American singers of this generation began her operatic career in New York on November 26 at the Academy when Lillian Norton-Gower was heard as Margherita in Faust. She was regarded as the best of Mapleson’s artists next to Patti and Gerster, hardly surprising in view of her later celebrity as Lillian Nordica. Abbey’s commitments to his artists spun his costly season through a Boston holiday recess from the Metropolitan, a return to New York in mid-January, and a long tour, followed by a spring season beginning on March 10. All of this ran his losses over half a million dollars (see page 7). As a sympathetic gesture, the stockholders of the Metropolitan granted him the 92 The Metropolitan Opera use of the theater for a benefit on April 21, 1884, at which the following program was performed: PART I I. Guglielmo Tell Overture Rossini II. Selection from the second act of Lucrezia Borgia Donizetti Lucrezia Fursch-Madi Duca Alfonso Novara III. Selection from the third act of II Trovatore Verdi Leonora Goldini Ruiz Grazzi Manrico Stagno IV. Second act of II Barbiere Rossini Including the Lesson Scene in which Mme. Sembrich will sing (A) Proch’s “Air and Variations” (B) Solovej (Rossignol) Russian National Air Almaviva Capoul Figaro Del Puente Don Basilio Mirabella Dr. Bartolo Corsina Rosina Sembrich (To conclude with the Quintet ) V. Selection from Aida Aida Amneris Amonasro Rhadames Verdi Fursch-Madi Trebelli Kaschmann Campanini VI. Concerto for violin No. 7 (Adagio and Rondo-finale) De Beriot (with orchestral accompaniment) Mme Sembrich, who, out of personal compliment to Mr. Abbey and on this occasion only, has consented to play Operas and Artists, 1883-1884 93 PART II VII. Overture and Chorus from Dinorah Meyerbeer VIII. Ave Maria (on Bach’s "Prelude”) Voice Mme. Nilsson Violin obbligato Mme. Sembrich Pianoforte Sig. Vianesi Harmonium Sig. Azzoni Gounod IX. Fourth act of Les Huguenots Raoul St. Bris de Nevers Valentine Campanini Kaschmann Del Puente Nilsson Meyerbeer X. Fourth act (trial scene) from Shakespeare’s comedy "The Merchant of Venice” Shylock Duke of Venice Antonio Bassanio Salanio Salarino Gratiano Clerk of Court Nerissa Portia Henry Irving Howe T. Wenman W. Terriss Lyndall Harburg F. Tyers Louther Miss Payne and Miss Ellen Terry XI. Grand Ballet Divertissement Mascheroni ("Farewell”) (Arranged especially for this performance by Cav. Vianesi) Mme. Cavalazzi and corps de ballet As may be noted. Abbey called upon such stars of his theatrical ventures as Ellen Terry and Sir Henry Irving to make the evening more attractive, and the profits to him were $16,000. Musically, the evening remains historical for the versatility displayed by Sembrich, who had been trained as a violinist and pianist before 94 The Metropolitan Opera settling on a career as a singer (it was Liszt who decided that, of her three talents, singing was the exceptional one). Her playing of the De Beriot concerto being warmly applauded, Sembrich went to the piano and played a Chopin mazurka. Then, to the delight of her audience, she sang “Ah! non giunge” from Son- namhula. Such a qualified eyewitness as W. J. Henderson has told me that her artistry was hardly less as an instrumentalist than as a vocalist. OPERA IN GERMAN, 1884-1891 The economic and temporal factors that determined the next direction of Metropolitan history were clearly in the pattern of its major design— expedience. Abbey’s refusal to continue with- out restitution of his first season’s losses left the stockholders with several alternatives (see page 8), none of which material- ized. At the latest possible moment— August— they accepted the proposal of Leopold Damrosch to give a season of German opera, stressing the little-known works of Wagner. With a knowledge of the New York public gained by direction of the New York Symphony Orchestra, Damrosch was convinced that the losses would be modest, especially as the services of the singers he en- gaged did not come high. These would necessarily be Germans, for it was as yet unknown for French or Italian artists to sing Wagner except in their own tongue. If French or Italian works were included in the repertory, they would be sung in German. The seven seasons that succeeded planted some strong ideas about opera in the minds of those who lived through it and passed their thinking on to others. The conviction that Wagner should be sung only in German was perhaps to be expected; less expect- able but no less a conviction was the agreed fact that Italian works should be sung in Italian, French works in French. Such conviction has flourished only in Anglo-Saxon countries, which, lacking an operatic literature of their own, can be objective about the best way of presenting the literature of others. Now that it has withered in England (only festival opera and guest perform- ances are given at Covent Garden in the original), the Metro- politan alone upholds this tenet of artistic integrity— of late not too resolutely. Operas and Artists, 1884-1885 95 1884-1885 The Metropolitan’s first season of opera in German was an ex- periment not only in type, but in detail. What made its success possible was two basic factors: a large German-speaking popula- tion in New York (a quarter of a million, according to contem- porary estimates) and a Wagner literature that it was eager to hear. Such singers as Amalia Materna and Marianne Brandt (both had sung Kundry in Bayreuth performances of Parsifal ) , Adolf Robinson (a baritone who made a later mark as teacher of Leo Slezak), and Anton Schott were well equipped to serve as liaison. One suspects that the results would have been approximately the same even with lesser singers. In the circumstances, one might have expected the Academy to burst into renewed vigor with the Italian and French works and singers excluded from the Metropolitan. Mapleson’s begin- ning on November 10 with Patti in II Barbiere was promising, but he had few male singers of quality to support Patti, Emma Nevada, Scalchi, and Fursch-Madi. Moreover, the owners of the property had made little effort to keep the house in proper repair, with the result, according to Krehbiel, that more than one dra- matic climax was ruined “by the collapse of a stall.” By Christ- mas time the season was over. In such circumstances the new Metropolitan was obviously a pleasanter place in which to spend the evening, almost in spite of what might be happening on the stage. For that matter, there was the excitement of novelty in the playing of the New York Symphony Orchestra under Leopold Damrosch for the perform- ance of Tannhauser, with which the season opened on Novem- ber 17. Auguste Kraus (known also as Seidl-Kraus after she mar- ried conductor Anton Seidl) was a capable Elisabeth,* Anna Slach a suitable Venus.* As Wolfram,* Robinson was better than either woman. Schott’s shouting as Tannhauser* was dis- turbing to an audience that thought Campanini’s Lohengrin the right sound for Wagner. Krehbiel vouches that an audience of five thousand attended this opening, though we wonder where it was put. The second-night Fidelio was a notable success for Brandt, whose Leonore* was greatly admired. The only portion of the 96 The Metropolitan Opera house not filled, according to the Tribune, was the stockholders’ boxes. A week later Weber appeared in the Metropolitan reper- tory for the first time, when Der Freischiitz was given with Kraus as Annchen,* Marie Schroder-Hanfstangl as Agathe,* Kogel as Caspar,* Robinson as Ottokar,* and Anton Udvardy as Max.* The spoken dialogue fared poorly in the large house. Despite one revival in 1909 and another in the 1920’s, Der Freischiitz has had fewer performances in all the Metropolitan history than, say, Peter Ibbetson. Along with a typical repertory of Les Huguenots, Guillaume Tell (in which Brandt surprised the public by accepting the minor role of Tell’s wife), Lohengrin (in which the same Brandt left a high mark for other Ortruds* to challenge), and even R igoletto (Schroder-Hanfstangl was Gilda,* Robinson the Rigo- letto*), the company ventured Don Giovanni on December 10. In this the remarkable Brandt turns up as Donna Elvira,* with Schroder-Hanfstangl as Donna Anna* and Hermine Bely as Zerlina.* Robinson sang the Don,* with Udvardy as Don Ot- tavio.* A rather more musicianly affair than the one of the year before, it was still given a black mark for the use of a German text. Matema made her debut on January 5 as Elisabeth* in Tann- hauser, spending most of the remainder of the month in prepa- ration for the first performance of Die Walkiire on January 30. Several appearances as Valentine* in Les Huguenots and Rachel* in La Juive were scattered along the way, but none made so deep an impression as her “impetuous, exultant Briinnhilde”* (Kreh- biel), with its “deep feeling, majestic appearance” (Henderson, the Times, January 31). Schott was the Siegmund,* Kraus the Sieglinde,* Kogel the Hunding,* and Staudigl the Wotan.* Such quality was not unexpected of Materna, for she had come to New York several years before to sing in concert performances of Wagner directed by Theodore Thomas. No one, however, ex- pected Brandt to turn from the prominent role of Fricka* to the minor one of a Valkyrie (Gerhilde*) in Act III. If these singers had pride, it was not for what they did, but for how they did it. Bayreuth procedure was claimed as the model for Stage Direc- tor Wilhelm Hock’s action, though we may note one deviation that remained a perverse Metropolitan “tradition” for decades to Operas and Artists, 1884-1885 97 come. In place of the “great door” that springs open midway in Act I, a curtain fell to the floor. Withal, Die Walkilre was a huge success, with six more performances in this season. Damrosch ’s formula was endorsed as sound in mid-January, when he was re-engaged for another year. At a ticket scale barely half of Abbey’s, twice as much money had come to the box office as in the first two months of the previous season. Damrosch agreed to go on for a fee of $8,000 (his first contract, for manag- ing and conducting, was $10,000) plus a share of the profits. But there was no second season for Leopold Damrosch, for he died of pneumonia on February 15, after a brief illness. Tire intellec- tual community of New York paid honor to the fifty-three-old native of Breslau in impressive ceremonies at the opera house on February 18. In addition to music, there were verbal tributes by Henry Ward Beecher and Felix Adler. During his father’s illness Walter Damrosch made his debut as conductor on February 11, when Tannhduser was given. He also directed Die Walkiire the next day. During the period of family mourning, John Lund, the company’s chorus master, took over in the pit, and he shared the post-season tour with the younger Damrosch. Despite the noisy contention of Anton Schott that he was the man to succeed Damrosch as managing director, the stockholders eventually selected their executive secretary, Edmond C. Stanton. He was obviously chosen to supervise business details, with the musical supervision entrusted to others. Walter Damrosch, at twenty-three, was not ready for such responsibility, but there was a logical candidate who was— Anton Seidl. Schott had put his name into a letter arguing his own cause, and thereafter claimed credit for Seidl’s engagement. As Wagner’s trusted disciple and the husband of a member of the Damrosch company, it may be assumed that Seidl was known favorably to others than Schott. The season’s breakdown showed that Damrosch had kept his production costs to an average of $3,400 a performance (in 1950 they averaged nearly five times as much). The loss for the year was about $40,000, hardly imposing when spread among seventy stockholders. 9 8 The Metropolitan Opera 1885-1886 Largely speaking, the six seasons of opera which followed the death of the senior Damrosch adhered to the scheme he had con- ceived. Wagner premieres, plus the introduction of other works successfully presented in Berlin and Vienna, were the basis of the repertory. The singers were of much the same type as those in the first German season, save that New York had the good fortune to hear Lilli Lehmann, the greatest of her generation, from the beginning of her period of greatest glory through the peak years of her career. If her work left one standard of comparison by which future sopranos were judged, Anton Seidl’s conducting marked the be- ginning of a tradition in another category of effort. From the opening performance of Lohengrin on November 24, 1885, which was remarkable if only for the number of errors (180 or more) in the printed score which he corrected during rehearsals, Seidl won an enduring esteem not only for scholarship, but also for temperament. He was one of the younger disciples of Wagner— he was only thirty-five when he came to America— and his sudden death in 1898 left a void that was not filled until Gustav Mahler arrived in 1907. Such generally respected men as Felix Mottl, Franz Schalk, and Alfred Hertz did not, in the intervening dec- ade, give discriminating New Yorkers what they had learned to expect from Seidl. How his Lohengrin differed from those to which New Yorkers were accustomed may be illustrated by Seidl’s comment a few years later when a group of musicians were exchanging opinions on various approaches to Wagner. “In the property room of the Metropolitan Opera House,” he said, “is a helmet . . . very much like other helmets save for the Schwanritter emblem which it bears. It was made for Lohengrin, and my dear friend Campa- nini wore it in a truly magnificent performance . if you were to find that helmet today, you would discover that in ad- dition to the prescribed dimensions and insignia, Campanini had put on it a blue plume, probably three feet in length. That, my dear gentlemen, is Italian opera [ see illustration].” Seidl’s second opera, on November 25, was Carmen. Lilli Leh- mann made her debut in the title role, in German, of course. Operas and Artists , 1885-1886 99 and with the spoken dialogue. At thirty-five she was just begin- ning to make the transition from a lyric singer of high distinction to a dramatic one of even greater stature. The favorite Bayreuth tenor Max Alvary sang Jose,* with Robinson as Escamillo* and Seidl-Kraus as Micaela.* Carmen was repeated on the Saturday afternoon of this week, with the same cast, following which Lehmann returned to the theater in the evening for a full re- hearsal of Die Walkure. This unusual procedure was necessary because the orchestra was paid a higher rate for a Sunday re- hearsal. The conductor for Die Walkure in this season was Walter Damrosch, Seidl being engaged first with the preparation of Goldmark’s Die Konigin von Saba and then with Die Meister- singer. Lehmann had the leading role of Sulamith* when Die Konigin von Saba was given for the first time on December 2. Krehbiel found the score “highly spiced” (the Tribune, December 3), but admired Goldmark’s handling of the text and the lavishness of the production. It was said that the work cost $75,000 to pro- duce, for which considerable scenery and costumes could be pur- chased in those days. Apparently it was the spectacle that justi- fied a total of fifteen performances in this single season (a house record until the oft-repeated Die Fledermaus of the first Bing season). Four performances satisfied public curiosity in 1886, and it was revived with negligible results in 1889 and 1905. Leh- mann appeared in most of the performances in the first season, one, on December 4, being followed by a Briinnhilde in Die Walkiire the next afternoon. In a period of nine days she made six appearances in three operas, taking part also in numerous re- hearsals. During the Christmas interval the company played a two-week engagement in Philadelphia and continued its arduous rehearsing of Die Meister singer. The dominant impression of the first per- formance on January 4 was the picturesquely burgherish Hans Sachs* of Emil Fischer, a Dresden favorite who became much beloved in New York. For a critic to compliment a later Sachs in terms of Fischer— as Friedrich Schorr was eventually— was to speak the highest praise he could find. Seidl-Kraus was well re- ceived as Eva* and Brandt as Magdalena,* but it was the con- ducting of Seidl that carried the others. The score was known to lOO The Metropolitan Opera the concert-going public from performances by Theodore Thomas and Leopold Damrosch, but even the best-disposed members of the press thought a knowledge of German life and customs essen- tial to enjoyment of the work on the stage. Town Topics, the organ of the society element, complained that “taking numbers . are unfortunately not very abundant.” Apprehensions to the contrary, Die Meistersinger was given eight times this season, with cuts that reduced the playing time to four and one-quarter hours. The repertory was limited to nine operas this season, each pre- ceded by a dress rehearsal. Lehmann sang in all but two or three, appearing as Bertha* in Le Prophete on December 9, as Mar- guerite* in a seven-act version of Faust 1 on January 20 (with Fischer as Mephistophel£s* and Brandt as Siebel*), and as Irene* when Rienzi had its first American performance on Feb- ruary 5. Lest the later portion of the season seem a mere breathing-spell for Lehmann, it may be mentioned that the last Tannhauser on March 3 found her cast as Venus.* The records for the year also show a concert performance of Parsifal directed by Walter Damrosch on March 4, with the untiring Brandt as Kundry, Fischer as Gumemanz, and Kramer as Parsifal. The as- sisting Oratorio Society Chorus performed in English. Although society’s pleasure with the new trend of things was not profound (see page 9), the year’s loss was only $25,000— much of it incurred during the Philadelphia visit— with paid at- tendance averaging 2,666 at Die Konigin von Saba, 2,500 at Die Meistersinger. To guarantee such musicians as Seidl, Lehmann, Fischer, and Alvary reasonable tenure in New York— most of them had given up pension rights and other court-theater pre- rogatives to come to the Metropolitan— an extension of three years was voted to German opera early in March. It might al- most be said that along with building a theater in Bayreuth, Richard Wagner had created the means to keep one open in New York and close another. For while Seidl was promoting the Germanic revival at the Metropolitan, Mapleson came to the end of his string at the Academy of Music. He could offer his customers neither Patti 1 Generally considered the longest performance of opera given in New York till that time; later exceeded only by Parsifal. lOl Operas and Artists, 1886-188 7 nor Gerster, and even the vivacious Minnie Hauk as Carmen disappointed his opening audience on November 2, 1885. Twenty years of singing had elapsed since she was first heard in New York, and her voice was badly worn. The notable event of a season limited to three weeks occurred after a short tour, when Mapleson selected Massenet’s M anon for a manager’s benefit on December 23. For this first North American performance Hauk sang Manon, with Del Puente as Lescaut, a Signor Gian- nini as Des Grieux, and another named Cherubini as his father. Mathilde Bauermeister, the incomparable seconda of the later Grau company, was Poussette; the language was Italian. With his once flourishing enterprise bereft of support. Maple- son announced his withdrawal from opera in New York with the historic words: “I cannot fight Wall Street.” 1886-1887 Wall Street and Wagner were, indeed, a formidable if fortui- tous combination. Tristan und Isolde was the missionary work of this season, and Seidl attacked it with all the zeal of a prophet. His introductory performance on December 1 was rated by Krehbiel as “finer than those of Bayreuth” in a review that ran serially in the Tribune on December 2, 3, and 5. Lehmann’s Isolde* was “beyond praise,” Brandt as Brangane gave “real pleasure,” and Fischer was an admired Marke.* More magnetic than any of his younger colleagues, if well worn in voice, was the fifty-seven-year-old Tristan,* Albert Niemann. A central figure in Wagnerian lore— he was the Tannhauser of the famous Parisian incident of 1861 and the first Bayreuth Siegmund in 1876— Niemann came to New York at a time when stage presence and a superb sense of declamation were his last dependable resources. All contemporaries are agreed that he was an artist of profound impulse, whether as Siegmund* in Die Walkiire (in which he made his debut on November 10), Tann- hauser on the 26th, or Florestan* in Fidelio on January 14. In fact, when he sang his final Tristan on February 7, the Evening Post compared the response to “the triumphs of Patti and Lind,” and seats with a face value of four dollars were sold by specula- tors for fifteen. All this was accomplished despite a voice dry 102 The Metropolitan Opera and unresonant, which might, as it did in his first Tannhauser, break in mid-phrase. As Chaliapin attracted an audience for Boris which had no special sympathy for Russian opera, so Niemann's powerful per- sonality did its work on behalf of Wagner. Eight performances of Tristan in this season were more than it had in any following one at the Metropolitan until the late 1930’s, when Flagstad and Melchior were another generation’s counterparts of Lehmann and Niemann. Lehmann and Niemann, however, could not sing every night, and the bright success of Tristan could not obscure the dim side of the season’s schedule, which this year included fourteen works. As a successor to the previous year’s successful Die Konigin von Saba (it had its sixteenth performance on the opening night, November 8), Merlin , also by Goldmark, was ventured on Janu- ary 3. Although Lehmann sang Viviane,* with Alvary as Merlin,* it had the unhappy distinction of being the first of many one- season “novelties” at the Metropolitan. On the other hand, the most popular of all operas in the Metropolitan’s history was poorly served by the German performers when Aida had its first performance in the theater on November 12. W. J. Henderson, ordinarily an outspoken admirer of Seidl, found his direction responsible for “unconscionable dragging of the tempi” (Times, November 13), and took issue with the “excessive emphasis” of such singers as Theresa Herbert-Forster (wife of Victor Her- bert) as Aida,* Brandt as Amneris,* Robinson as Amonasro,* and Fischer as Ramfis.* Rhadames* was sung by Carl Zobel. There was, of course, no sensible reason why New Yorkers should listen to Aida in German or why they should be invited to so Germanic a “light evening” as the double bill of “Vienna Waltzes” (a ballet to music arranged by Josef Bayer) and Ignaz Brail's Das goldene Kreuz, given first on November 19. This was obviously as much operatic imbalance as the Italian Carmen or Lohengrin of the first season, and doomed to fall in the same category of limited interest. Seidl could scarcely be blamed for an unidiomatic Aida, for this was not his idiom. One should not be too surprised to discover that he brought to it something of the “freshness” that Walter Damrosch brought to a Trovatore he conducted in this period. Asked by Henderson: “For good- Operas and Artists, 1887-1888 103 ness’ sake, Walter, where did you get those tempi?” he replied: “I don’t know. I never conducted it before.” A reminder of another kind of operatic art came at the end of the German season when a touring company starring Patti played a short season at the Metropolitan in April and May. She was now working for the undiscourageable Abbey, with a typical stock company of the time— Scalchi, Del Puente, Galassi, and so on. In a repertory of La T raviata, Carmen, Semiramide, Faust, Lucia, and Marta, Abbey did a spectacular business at seven dollars for his best seats. Henderson might scoff: "Every- one knew that Carmen was a cat, but Patti made her a kitten,” but Abbey had a better phrase with which to fight back. This, the public was told, was Patti’s farewell in opera. One can imag- ine the mournful state of mind with which Krehbiel wrote, in his Chapters of Opera (1908): “I have just been reading the same legend again in the London newspapers— twenty-one years after it served Mr. Abbey a turn.” Voice and legend were good enough to attract $70,000 for six operas, and a repetition of Lucia on May 6. This was addio, but not senza encore. 1887-1888 In the circumstances thus far detailed, the time might have seemed ripe for a revision of the thinking that had resulted in three years of German opera. Why, one might have said, with an Abbey company available could there not be a collaborative effort, in which Seidl would go on with his production of Ger- man opera and the public be served otherwise by Italian per- formances of Italian works? Aside from such a matter as the extension of lease voted to Seidl and his German artists the year before, there was a more practical factor to consider. By restricting the company in size and encouraging the kind of ensemble which flourished in the court theaters from which the singers came, ticket prices could be kept to a top of four dollars. Nothing of the sort would be possible with a company built around stars. And, remembering their last experience with such a company, in 1883, the stock- holders felt no disposition to risk heavy losses. Hence Seidl proceeded with Siegfried and Gotterdammerung as the new Wagner ventures of this season, balanced by Eury- 104 The Metropolitan Opera anthe, Spontini's Fernand Cortez, and Nessler’s Trompeter von Sdkkingen. In Siegfried on November 9 Alvary showed his at- tractively youthful Siegfried, * with Lehmann as Briinnhilde.* In a Times review (the column was headed “Amusements,” with the subheading “Another Wagner Opera”) Henderson said: “There is no doubt that the brilliant array of society people . . . were extremely bored.” Others in the audience were “unques- tionably pleased” by Lehmann’s “magnificent singing” and Fischer’s “noble” Wotan.* Alvary was “surprisingly good,” but Ferenczy was “execrable” as Mime.* In the two months that elapsed before Gotterdammerung (the program called it “Die” Gotterdammerung) was given on Janu- ary 25, the Metropolitan Siegfried had aged more than the Wag- nerian one. In Bayreuth, Niemann had been forbidden to ap- pear as Siegfried, for Wagner considered it undesirable (for illusion) for the same performer to play both Siegmund and his son. His death scene, however (as in Tristan ) sent “magnetic shocks” (the Tribune, January 26, 1887) through the audience, and Lehmann was “a benediction to the memory.” Henderson endorsed Seidl’s omission of the Norn and Waltraute scenes as “judicious pruning,” of which one consequence was that Brandt had nothing to sing but a Rhinemaiden (Wellgunde*). Not until Franz Schalk came in 1898 was Gotterdammerung given entire. With the trilogy at last in the repertory (Das Rheingold, it will be remembered, is officially a “prelude”), Seidl offered his public a pseudo-Bayreuth ceremonial beginning on January 30, continuing on February 1 and 3. Lehmann sang the three Briinn- hildes in five days, and Niemann pleased himself, if not the memory of Wagner, by playing Siegmund and the elder Sieg- fried. The sequence was repeated the following week, and there were three later hearings of Gotterdammerung before the season ended on February 18. With all this indication of public favor, the kind and charac- ter of the performance should not be overvalued. In a summing up at the season’s end Henderson commented (the Times ) that Gotterdammerung is full of opportunities for scenic effects, “none of which have been advantageously used." In part “the lack of mechanism and properly arranged space” of the stage Operas and Artists, 1887-1888 105 was blamed for this, but it was also felt that too much money had been spent on Cortez. Niemann sang Cortez* when it was first given, on January 6, with a largely male cast (Meisslinger as Amazily* was the single exception), with results that Krehbiel described as very much like “trying to resuscitate a mummy.’' Henderson admired the “vigor and sweep” of the writing, but did not find its effect “deep or lasting.” Aside from the “glitter- ing production,” the project offered little, and it disappeared after three repetitions. In the press of more important affairs, Nessler’s Trompeter was given in a way Henderson termed “slovenly,” for all its “tune- ful” qualities. Louise Meisslinger made her debut as the ex- Countess of Wildenstein* in the first performance on November 23, showing a voice the same critic termed “clear and fresh, if rather acid.” The work was repeated six times in this season. Along with her week of three Briinnhildes, Lehmann found time to sing several Isoldes (the first, on November 2, being the opening performance of the season, in the presence of the Sec- retary of the Navy and a delegation from the Chinese Embassy), several performances of Leonore in Fidelio, and Euryanthe* on December 3. Despite the splendid work of Brandt as Eglantine,* Alvary as Adolar,* and Fischer as Lysiart,* the Seidl production (Mth the tableau during the overture) fared much the same as Toscanini’s of 1914-15— four performances in the earlier season, five in the later. Near the end of the season Brandt let it be known that she would not return, though her services were highly valued. Her choice of Fidelio for a farewell on March 17 recalled an incident of the previous year, when her performance of the dungeon scene had been interrupted by raucous laughter from a box, and Seidl had to begin “O namenlos Freude” a second time. The blame was attached to Lilli Lehmann, something of a Leonore herself, and the relations of the two thereafter were very cool. Unfortunately, for all her greatness as an artist, Lehmann did not get along well with some female colleagues. In the 1890’s, Nordica— by then an artist of distinction— approached Lehmann deferentially in a foyer at Bayreuth and asked when she might call to pay her respects. In a voice that could be heard for yards, Lehmann replied: “I am not taking pupils this season.” 106 The Metropolitan Opera The itinerant companies that used the Academy of Music at this time left little worth noting, save for the premiere of Verdi’s Otello on April 16, with Cleofonte Campanini conducting for a company headed by his brother, and Eva Tetrazzini (sister of the still-to-be-heard-from Luisa) as Desdemona. Italo Campa- nini did not take the title role, however, until April 20, a Signor Marconi preceding him. Henderson and Krehbiel were at vari- ance in their reports of this affair, the former describing "tu- mults of applause,” repetitions of the “Credo" (sung by Galassi) and the “Ave Maria," and a final opinion that it was “a great work and one that ought to live long.” Krehbiel thought the public attitude “apathetic,” declared that the tenor, Marconi, did not “please,” and called the music “not of the kind expected from Verdi.” Inasmuch as Henderson went back for the Campa- nini performance to marvel at his acting (“rarely seen on a lyric stage in this country”), one may assume that his attitude was more receptive than that of the strongly pro-Wagner Krehbiel. 1888-1889 Among the ironies with which the history of the Metropolitan is sprinkled, few are more diverting than the quirk by which the works of Wagner written for his “modern” stage at Bayreuth were made to serve as saviors of a theater barren of such re- sources. The complaints aroused by the manner in which Gof- terddmmerung had been given in the previous season were much surpassed when it came the turn of Das Rheingold on January 4, 1889. As excuse for presenting the work with a quarter-hour intermission between the second and third scenes, the “practise of the Imperial Opera House in Vienna” was cited. How this made it better, the explanation did not explain. No precedent could be cited, however, for lowering the cur- tain after the Nibelheim scene. Krehbiel politely attributed this to the “structural peculiarities” of the stage ( Tribune , Janu- ary 5). Henderson, more forthright, said: “The house has a badly constructed stage,” ill-adapted to anything requiring “heavy mechanical operations.” Despite a Loge* by Alvary which was “sadly lacking in subtlety,” Henderson had hearty admiration for Seidl’s treatment of the score, the Wo tan* of Fischer, and the Alberich* of Joseph Beck, a Bayreuth stalwart. Operas and Artists, 1888-1889 107 None of the women was outstanding. To take advantage of the interest aroused by the scenic illusions, the other repertory was suspended for a while, with repetitions of Rheingold on Janu- ary 5 and 7. There were, in all, nine performances of Das Rheingold in this season, including two as part of complete cycles, the first be- ginning March 4, the second March 15. Lehmann sang the Briinnhildes in all of these, plus extra performances of Gotter- ddmmerung on March 16 and 22. In fact, between March 16 and 22 Lehmann sang a Briinnhilde every day except the 17th and 19th. She did not arrive this season until January, but she repeated a greatly admired role in a new setting on January 30, singing Venus* when the Paris version of T annhduser was introduced. Niemann’s American career having ended and Alvary being ill, Tannhauser* was sung by Lehmann’s husband, Paul Kalisch. He was favorably known as a concert singer in New York, but had not previously ventured into opera. Not gifted with a notable voice, he was nevertheless an artist of quality, and a singer of “fine taste” (Krehbiel). Opinions varied on the comparative merits of the Paris Tannhauser and the Dresden one, then bet- ter known in New York. Some missed the “noble climax” of the overture as it passed directly into the Venusberg scene; others thought that the second scene had lost some of its simplicity. Eventually the Paris version became standard at the Metro- politan, even to the season when Fritz Busch of Dresden was its conductor. With most of the major Wagner repertory explored, Stanton had a thought of giving Parsifal in this season, despite the well- known objections of the Wagner family. More influential, per- haps, were the objections of his principal singers, most of them Bayreuth-oriented, with a keen idea of what would happen to their future relations with Cosima should they take part in a sub rosa Parsifal. Lehmann has recorded (My Path through Life, page 380) her strong advice to Stanton to “leave it to Bayreuth.” With the tenure of Geman opera up for renewal, it is per- haps easy to understand the trend in repertory toward a German Trovatore (as well as Aida), a new mounting of L’Africaine, and 108 The Metropolitan Opera more attention to Les Huguenots and Le Prophete than in the previous season. On one occasion when La Juive was given, the ballet in Act III tripped lightly to the “Pizzicato” from Delibes’s Sylvia. The season began with Les Huguenots on November 28, with Fanny Moran-Olden a new Valentine,* Felicie Kaschowska a new Urban,* and a vigorous tenor, Julius Perotti, making his debut as Raoul.* Considering the German influence of the day, it is hardly surprising that the Times identified Fischer, the Marcel, as “Maxel.” Guglielmo Tell was revived on December 3 to show off Perotti’s high C sharp in the role of Arnold.* When the trio with Robinson and Fischer was heartily applauded, Perotti walked to the footlights for a bow while his German- trained colleagues held their poses. Perotti also had a triumphant time with the top notes of Vasco da Gama* when UAfricaine was presented on Decem- ber 8. Henderson spoke well of the scenery, especially the “ship scene . a fine specimen of marine architecture.” Robinson (Nelusko*) and Fischer (Don Pedro*) did their work well, but the ladies (Moran-Olden as Selika* and Sophie Traubman as Inez*) were wanting. Seidl was the conductor. Perotti made a contribution of sorts to history by singing both Faust* (Decem- ber 26) and Siegmund* in Die Walkiire (February 15), a pair of tenor roles not attempted even by Jean de Reszke. Perotti was also involved, as Manrico,* in a Trovatore of February 6 in which Henderson accused Damrosch of taking the “Anvil Chorus” at a “break-neck tempo” (see page 103). The patience of the box-holders with opera in German was fraying badly— some unusually loud conversation during a flute solo in the opening Huguenots was “hissed down,” said the Times— but it had not quite reached the breaking-point. Midway in the season a statement of plans for the next year was circu- lated, offering a choice of continuing German opera at an assess- ment of $3,200 a box or keeping the theater dark at an assess- ment of $1,000 a box. Italian opera was ruled out because “it would entail a much larger assessment upon the stockholders than to give German opera.” On March 17 the stockholders voted to continue German opera, forty-three in favor, three opposed. Operas and Artists, i 88 g-i 8 go log The only performance of Italian opera in Italian at the Metro- politan in this season came late in April, when Italo Campanini arranged a benefit performance of Lucia with Clementine de Vere, a later Metropolitan favorite, as Lucia, and Del Puente as Enrico. The worthy object of the benefit was Campinini him- self. Not to be scorned in any chronicle of musical events at the Metropolitan was a concert on March 27, in which Hans von Biilow, currently favoring New York with a “cyclus” of Bee- thoven piano sonatas, conducted a program of Berlioz’s Ben- venuto Cellini Overture, the Fourth Symphony of Brahms, the Eighth of Beethoven, and the Tannhauser Overture. Along the way Fursch-Madi sang arias from Herodiade and Samson et Dalila. A rather breathless account in the Times concluded: “Dr. von Bvilow displayed his remarkable musical memory by conducting the four orchestral numbers without score.” 1889-1890 The two final years in which opera was given exclusively in Ger- man at the Metropolitan show a pair of trends, sharply op- posed, but equally intense: a growing resistance on the part of the stockholders to more and more Wagner, an increasingly desperate effort on the part of Stanton and his associates to vary the fare while preserving the basic cuisine. When the two atti- tudes reached a climax of tension, the decision was made, on January 14, 1891, to turn the house over to Abbey and Grau for a fresh start on opera in the old manner. How little some of the stockholders had come to care for their responsibilities as “art patrons” was shown midway in this season by an article in the Times of February 2, 1890. Titled “Opera House Rights,” it began: “The annual dispute as to the rights of man to talk in an opera house has broken out with its customary severity. Persons who have come to New York to see the sights . . . are surprised when they hear a sudden outburst of sibilant sounds not down in the score. These are the ad- monitory hisses of the three-dollar men and women who sit in the orchestra stalls and grow weary under the constant down- dropping upon their heads of diamonds of speech from the thirty-two-hundred-dollar ladies and gentlemen in the boxes.” 110 The Metropolitan Opera The provocation for these comments was the open statement of Henry Clews and Elbridge T. Gerry that the stockholders were tired of being rebuked by the ticket-buyers and would con- duct themselves as they pleased. “Mr. Gerry agrees with Mr. Clews,” the Times continued, “that all persons who hiss the licensed conversationalists should be put out.” It offered the suggestion that a simple solution would be for the house to be closed to such interlopers. “It will cost them only $7,000 each to run the opera” and “enjoy their conversations without the interruption of hissing.” The notion of such an investment doubtless appealed to them as little as the ironic tone of the writer, W. J. Henderson. What was being talked through, moreover, was on frequent occasions some of the most amazingly versatile singing that the Metropolitan had heard or would hear. With no remaining Wagner roles to explore, Lilli Lehmann assumed a repertory staggering in both breadth and inclusiveness— not only the three Briinnhildes, Isolde, Venus, and Sulamith in Die Konigin von Saba, but Donna Anna* in Don Giovanni on December 4, Amelia* in E in Maskenball on December 11 ( Un Ballo in Ger- man), Rachel* in La Juive on December 20, Aida on January 1 5, and climactically, Norma* on February 27. The last of these was chosen by Lehmann for a performance arranged for her own benefit, rousing infinite admiration in some quarters, a little resistance in others. The Wagnerians, led by Krehbiel, hailed it as proof beyond dispute that constant singing of Wagner did not, as some contended, permanently im- pair the voice: “It . . . served to disprove in part the asser- tion . . . that devotion to the lyric drama in its latest and most significant phase does not necessarily preclude excellence in the old domain of beautiful singing.” Henderson thought that Norma, hastily got up for a benefit, was a rather egotistical ges- ture by Lehmann, but concurred in the judgment of the art dis- played. “Her voice possesses far more flexibility . . . and a greater command of the pure ornamentation of singing than anyone suspected.” Some of the earlier singers of the Italian stage performed with more assurance, Henderson suggested, “but so long is it since this public has heard so excellent an ex- hibition of this sort that the audience was fairly carried away” Ill Operas and Artists, i 88 g—i 8 go (Times, February 28). It was a long time between Normas for the Metropolitan, for the next was Rosa Ponselle, thirty-seven years later. Kalisch was the Pollione* in his wife’s benefit, with Damrosch conducting. Earlier, Henderson had judged Lehmann’s Amelia, in De- cember, as “equal to anything that could have been done by a great Italian singer . . . her acting far beyond that which the Italian stage has been in the habit of associating with Verdi’s earlier works.” Her Aida was also of exceptional quality, closer to the ideal established by Clara Louise Kellogg in 1874 than anything heard in the interim. Her Donna Anna, in a poorish cast (Reichmann was the Don,* with Kalisch as Ottavio,* and Sonntag-Uhl as Elvira,* d), was admirable, though not the forceful performance of a few years later. Seidl’s conducting, it was said, gave a new insight into “the composer’s instrumental design.” This year’s Tristan to the Lehmann Isolde on Janu- ary 22 was Heinrich Vogl, a Viennese. The judgment was short but comprehensive: “an earnest man, but he cannot sing.” Aside from the work of Lehmann, the season was notable only for the introduction of the zestful Barbier yon Bagdad, by Peter Cornelius, the Wagner disciple. It was well received at its premiere on January 4, 1890, though Seidl had become ill after directing all the rehearsals and Damrosch took his place. The Times spoke well of its “wonderfully faithful” musical charac- terization, and Krehbiel thought that the judgment of New York might reverse the work’s previous failure in Europe. Fischer was the Barber,* with Kalisch as Nureddin* and Traubman as Margiana.* The disruption of the German repertory in the next season delayed further attention to Cornelius for a while— until 1925, in fact. In a pre-season prospectus there had been talk of La Gioconda and Lalo’s R of d’Ys to vary the repertory further, but neither was given. The Ring returned, distinguished largely by Lehmann’s Briinnhildes, for Vogl was a further step down from Niemann and Alvary. The additional Wagner included Der fliegende Hollander (with which the season began on November 26) and Rienzi. Abbey’s tourists came back to the Metropolitan for a month of Italian opera in better form than ever to challenge the good 112 The Metropolitan Opera judgment that insisted on German opera for New York. Fran- cesco Tamagno in Otello, with Albani as Desdemona and Del Puente as Iago, was a rousing start on March 24, with Patti in Semiramide on March 26, Nordica, Tamagno, and Del Puente in II Trovatore the next day, and Patti in La Sonnamhula on the day following. Between the clarion voice of Tamagno and the agile one of Patti, the critics held to a course that included, in either in- stance, superlatives. “One of the most manlike men ever to stride the stage,” said the Times, . . his ‘Sangue Sangue!’ was given parlando with a fierce shout . his B and C are immensely powerful.” Of Patti: “This was vocal art that would draw in 'The Bohemian Girl.’ ” Apparently Abbey was not altogether certain that it would continue to draw in Lakme, Lucia, Romeo et Juliette, for by April 26 it was advertised that this was, again, Patti’s farewell. The categorical statement was: “It is certain that this public will never again hear her in the roles with which her name and fame are identified.” Never again, actually, until the spring of 1892. 1890-1891 Whatever the abuses the hosts of the Metropolitan visited upon their paying guests, one could scarcely condemn them for calling “Enough!” when the season Stanton had contrived for his seventh was halfway along. There was no Lehmann, no Materna, no Brandt; no Niemann, Alvary, or even Vogl. Aside from An- dreas Dippel, who was to find his way to an executive’s chair before his Metropolitan career ended, and a thin-voiced Minnie Hauk, the names are of the sort known only to specialists in by- gone opera lore. Even more offensive, if possible, was the repertory, which blossomed with such “novelties” as Baron Alberto Franchetti’s A srael, which had its premiere on the opening night, Novem- ber 26, with Dippel as Asrael;* Smareglia’s II Vassallo di Szigeth, and Diana von Solange by Ernest II, Duke of Saxe-Coburg. “Bewildering” was the term of the Times (November 27) for the libretto of Ferdinand Fontana on which the German-influenced Franchetti based his score; a “sup of horrors” the description of Operas and Artists , 1890-1891 113 Krehbiel for Der Vasall von Szigeth, during which “volleys of talk and laughter” (the Times ) echoed from the boxes. These, at least, were professional works of competent writers, however imitative or banal. Neither novel nor professional was Diana von Solange, which was thirty years old in 1890 when Stanton elected to put it on for reasons related to the well-known “lavishness of the Duke . in the distribution of orders, es- pecially among musicians.” The diligent Dippel sang Armand* in a score described by Henderson as “simply rubbish.” The critic’s prophecy that Diana would not see a third performance was borne out when a petition protesting a repetition on Janu- ary 12 was delivered to the management with three hundred signatures. As a species of tit for tat, its replacement was fairly remarkable: Fidelio. It was during this series of days that the management came to the conclusion that opera in German, however cheap, was no replacement for desirable opera, however costly. On January 14 it was decided to give Abbey another chance with a full season’s presentations. On the next day the famous card (page 56) com- manding silence was posted in the boxes. Presumably the re- buke could be issued when the issue was decided. And with the issue decided, the management could even be magnanimous and let the German public have its fill of Wagner for the remainder of the season. Only Lohengrin and Tannhduser had been heard during the weeks when the decision was being reached. On this same Janu- ary 14 the opera was Die Meistersinger, with Heinrich Gudehus as Walther,* Reichmann as Sachs,* and Marie Jahn as Eva.* Siegfried came along on January 28 (with Antonia Mielke as Briinnhilde* ) , 'Walkiire on February 6, Gotterdammerung on the 13th, and Tristan on the 25th. From March 7 to the closing date of March 21 nothing but Wagner was given. Every per- formance had its vociferous demonstration for Wagner and Seidl, and at the closing Die Meistersinger (with Dippel as Walther*) Fischer’s Sachs was cheered until he spoke a few words in English. Seidl and Stanton shared the post-curtain calls, which continued for half an hour. To judge from the Krehbiel documentation, this demonstra- ms xi4 The Metropolitan Opera tion was a measured objection by the whole operatic, non- stockholder public; but access to the Henderson files has cast another light on the emerging picture. Reviewing the opinions expressed by “our esteemed contemporaries,” he said in the Times (January 26, 1891) that they were “based on an assump- tion that the Directors of the Opera House are flying in the face of public demand. This seems a little severe. . . . The Germans, who comprise three-fourths of the present patronage of the Met- ropolitan, will seldom darken its doors next season. Whether or not there is a public to take their places is the problem.” The answer seemed clear to Henderson, even if no known company was capable of providing it. “The modern French school, which has endeavored to make a fusion of the styles of Wagner and Gluck . . . has been shut out of the Metropolitan, probably on account of the expense. . . . The Italian and Ger- man novelties have not found favor with the public with the ex- ception of Cornelius’s charming 'Barber of Bagdad,’ and the patrons of the house have refused to attend performances of the threadbare Meyerbeer operas. . . . The result is that the public has literally limited the paying repertoire . to the Wagner list and 'Fidelio.’ Now it is quite as impossible to run an Opera House on such a list as this as it is on a list composed of ‘Lucia,’ ‘II Trovatore,’ ‘La Sonnambula,’ ‘Rigoletto,’ et id omne genus. The safest way out of the difficulty was to produce some of the French operas often promised but never forthcoming.” Plainly what Henderson had in mind was a fusion of the operatic elements at large in the world, each of valid interest when provided in reasonable proportion. How this could be achieved within the framework of a resident repertory company was a question that took nearly all of a decade to answer. Characteristic of the epoch was the Metropolitan “career” of Minnie Hauk, who appeared as a member of the company for the first time on February 20. This favorite of New York, where she was bom, was thinner of voice than in her Academy days, but the opera, almost automatically, was Carmen. With Dam- rosch conducting, and Dippel singing “the weakest Jose I have ever encountered” (Henderson), Hauk sang this and two other performances of Carmen, for her own countrymen, in her native city, in German. Operas and Artists, i 8 go~i 8 gi 1J 5 EPILOGUE In purely musical terms no period in the history of the Metro- politan saw so much accomplishment as the seasons given over to the production of opera in German. The first performances of the Ring, Tristan, and Die Meistersinger were inevitable hap- penings in America, as they had recently been in London; but it was much to America's gain that they were produced with Niemann, Brandt, Materna, Lehmann, and Fischer, under so capable a conductor as Anton Seidl. The period was inordinately prolonged after the work foreordained for it was completed; but that was not to be charged against the artists who made it mem- orable. As witness to collateral conditions in the other great English- speaking city in which opera flourished, one may invoke the ob- servations of Bernard Shaw. Writing of Die Meistersinger in July 1889, he notes: “How Johannistag sounds as 'solenne di’ and Wahn! Wahn! as ‘Si, Si’ may be imagined.” From Bayreuth a little later he wrote: “After the scratch representations we are accustomed to in London, at which half the attention of the singers is given to the prompter, half to the conductor, and the rest to the character impersonated, the Bayreuth plays seem miracles of perfect preparedness” ( London Music in 1888-89). For that matter, Shaw wrote that the Covent Garden under- writers of the “season” were hardly less rude than their American counterparts: “They delay the rise of the curtain until half-past eight and then come late. . . . They waste invaluable space with their comfortless dens of boxes. The percentage of incon- siderate persons among them is so high that there are always at least three parties disturbing the audience by talking and laugh- ing at full pitch during the performance.” The beginning made in New York was reflected in tours or- ganized by Walter Damrosch and others. The German artists brought to the Metropolitan were heard and admired in other centers, and their standards became ours. When there was a re- version to earlier practices, enough experience had been amassed to prove that the “music of the future” was, in truth, the music of the present. To be sure, there was a veneration of the ponderous to the n6 The Metropolitan Opera neglect of the merely pleasurable. The later Verdi languished, Mozart was barely noticed, Gluck and Handel were ignored. But a definite responsibility to the public was discharged, if involun- tarily; the cornerstone laid, if the building was never really com- pleted. THE DE RESZKES AND THE “GOLDEN AGE OF SONG,” 1891-1903 Among those with a reasonably wide view of the operatic world of the 1890’s, the reaction to the new policy of the Metropolitan was not all lamentation and despair. Abbey’s company was to be, in the first place, not merely Italian but Franco-Italian. In the second place, it promised, among its principal artists, Edouard and Jean de Reszke, of whom Henderson said (in the Times ar- ticle quoted previously, page 114): “So far as the De Reszke brothers are concerned, the public may rest satisfied. . . . These gentlemen are real artists and while they sing like angels, they do not forget to act like men.” It was inevitable that personalities of this magnitude should come to America; in fact, they had all but committed themselves to Mapleson for a tour in 1888 (Clara Leiser: Jean de Reszke and the Great Days of Opera. New York: Minton Balch & Company; 1934, p. 64). That impresario’s determination not to “fight Wall Street” put an end to his American activities, which was just as well for the De Reszkes. When they came, it was not in a touring company of dubious artistic possibilities, but as generative forces in a new operatic development. The pattern did not emerge at once, but the elements that en- tered into it may be indicated here. Two factors had to be recon- ciled. One, a question of musical style, involved the capacity of singers trained in the “old” school of Gounod and early Verdi to adapt themselves to the “new” requirements of Wagner. The second, a matter of language, posed the necessity for the best singers of the day to be equally adept in Italian, French, and Ger- man if the whole repertory were to profit from their talents. It was the signal contribution of the De Reszke brothers, in the fullness of time, to lead the way in that historic evolution. And historic it was, not only for the time in which they lived and functioned, but also as a model on which the seriously ambi- Operas and Artists, 1891— 1892 117 tious singers of the future might form their own careers. The contribution would have been a notable one had they been lesser men; that they were, as well, the idols of London, New York, and Paris gave them leadership in what was the first truly inter- national period of operatic performance. Something might be said about the odd fact that this new concept of versatility was led by two Poles— the De Reszkes— seconded by such Americans as Eames, Nordica, and Bispham. But what could be more natural? Neither Polish nor English being an “operatic language,” it was a matter of little moment whether such nationals learned Italian and French or Italian, French, and German. When the period had passed, and its les- sons could be evaluated, the conclusion was that the key lan- guage and training was French; that facility in French and the training of the Opera vastly enhanced the work these people did in Italian and German. In years to come, many important singers of German background learned to perform in French and Italian; fewer of the standard Italian artists were so diligent. Doubtless temperament and training were important in this; but it is also a fact that Italian opera-singers could find a lifetime’s employment in their own theaters without learning even one additional language. THE ABBEY-SCHOEFFEL-GRAU OPERA COMPANY, 1891-1897 1891-1892 The break with the period of German opera was accompanied by several other musical happenings that put what followed in a much more contemporary frame of reference. October 1, 1891 was marked by a competition in New York premieres of Caval- leria rusticana. The victory went to Rudolph Aronson, who put his version on the stage of the Casino Theater in the afternoon. In the evening Oscar Hammerstein, then associated with the Harlem Opera House on 125th Street, produced Cavalleria in the Lenox Lyceum. The competition seemed futile in any case, for the American premiere had occurred on September 10 in Philadelphia, and none of the performances did justice to the score. The only name worth noting other than Hammerstein’s xx8 The Metropolitan Opera was that of Heinrich Conried, who was stage manager for Aronson. During the next few weeks the record of musical performance in New York gained such familiar names as Olive Fremstadt (the t came off later) , who made her debut in a concert directed by Seidl in the Lenox Lyceum on November 8; and Ignace Paderewski, who made three appearances with orchestra and gave three recitals between November 17 and December 2. Thus the musical public was alert for fresh experiences when the Abbey company came to the Metropolitan on December 14, after five weeks in Chicago. Vianesi, who had conducted most of the performances of the 1883-4 season, was in charge of the opening Romeo et Juliette, and the orchestra greeted him with a fanfare when he took the podium. For the first time French was heard in the Metropoli- tan, and the choral prologue to the opera was included. The youthful Emma Eames (only twenty-four, but with Parisian success to her credit) made her debut as Juliette,* as did Jean de Reszke as Romeo,* Edouard as Frere Laurent,* Mathilde Bauermeister as the Nurse,* and Jean Martapoura as Mercutio.* The Tribune described Eames as a “strikingly beautiful Juliette” and Jean de Reszke’s artistic instincts as “most admirable,” though “his voice is not sensuously beautiful.” Henderson, in the Times , echoed the compliments for Eames (her waltz was “one of the . . . most finished bits of coloratura singing lately heard”), termed De Reszke’s voice an “agreeable though not a surprising organ,” and concurred in recognizing his “genuine artistic feeling.” The highest praise went to Edouard de Reszke, who demonstrated “in a single scene” (Act II) that he was a “really great artist.” In an honest effort to combine the best of the old with the new, Abbey engaged Lilli Lehmann for this season, and had serious intentions of presenting her in a German Walkiire with Seidl conducting and Fischer (Wotan) als Oast, during Febru- ary. She found herself out of voice as the time approached, how- ever, and the project was dropped. She began her work for the season on the second night (December 16), as Leonora* in an Italian Trovatore, with Kalisch as Manrico,* and a current Lon- don favorite, Giulia Ravogli, as Azucena.* Lehmann’s dramatic Operas and Artists, 1891-1892 119 power “interested her listeners more than any . . . Leonora in many years” (the Times ) , but Ravogli lacked the low tones New York liked in the role. Lillian Nordica’s Metropolitan debut came on December 18, when she replaced the ailing Albani as Valentine* in Les Hu- guenots, with Jane de Vigne as Urbain.* With Jean de Reszke as Raoul* and Edouard as Marcel,* the night was alive with fine singing, though not enough to make Henderson indifferent to a performance of the viola obbligato to Raoul’s first air, which was “one of the most discomforting performances ever heard in the Opera House.” (The Symphony Society had left the house with the end of German opera. ) One of the favorite experiences of this era was introduced on Christmas Day when Jean de Reszke was heard for the first of many times as Faust,* with Eames as Marguerite,* Scalchi as Siebel,* and Bauermeister as Marthe.* Enrico Serbolini was a stand-in for the indisposed brother De Reszke as Mephistoph- eles.* When Edouard appeared in the part for the first time on February 1 it was Henderson’s opinion that “Veau d’or” had “never been sung on the Metropolitan stage as he sang it.” For reasons of convenience, apparently, this opera continued to be given in Italian, as was Carmen. The full impact of the company Abbey had engaged was not evident until mid-January, when the great baritone Jean Lassalle made his debut as Nelusko* in L’ Africaine, with Nordica (Sel- ika*), Jean de Reszke (Vasco da Gama*) and Edouard (Don Pedro*). Even the reluctant Krehbiel rejoiced: “To see three such splendid representations of physical and artistic man- hood . on the stage was in itself a unique sensation.” Las- salle’s second role, on January 18, was a Don Giovanni* “in strict accordance with the traditions of the Paris Grand Opera” (the Times), with Edouard de Reszke a “wholly delightful” Le- porello,* and Lehmann’s Donna Anna now of “gigantic stature.” None of the other performers matched such standards, nor was Vianesi a Seidl. Along with Romeo, Faust, and Vasco da Gama as noted, Jean de Reszke’s range in this season encompassed John of Ley- den* in Le Prophete on January 1, 1892 (with Lehmann as Bertha, Edouard de Reszke as Zacharias* ) , Rhadames* in Aida 120 The Metropolitan Opera on December 28 (also with Lehmann, and with Edouard as the High Priest*), Lohengrin* on January 4 (Eames as Elsa* and Edouard as the King*), Otello* with Albani on the 11th, and Walther* in an Italian M eistersinger on March 3. He was ad- mired for most of these, though his Otello, in the recent memory of Tamagno’s performance, was deemed “small” in voice, if well acted. Unfortunately, he did not sing the part in later years. In the Wagner roles Jean had varying success. Although Lohengrin is recalled as one of his greatest, the Times thought his first attempt “sentimental,” if “remarkably handsome,” his grail knight no more than a “charming gentleman.” As Walther in I Maestri Cantori his “sincere, fervent and thoughtful” per- formance was admired, as was the Sachs of Lassalle, but even with Seidl on hand to conduct, the Times found the “frequent inappropriateness” of the whole enterprise too much to condone. Although Lehmann could not manage Briinnhilde in this sea- son, she could sing Philine in M ignon in Italian on February 6— probably the only time in operatic history the two roles have been associated with the same artist. “Stalwart both physically and vocally,” was Henderson’s phrase for the great lady, who spent her time otherwise in this season in such roles as Norma on December 19 and Leonore in Fidelio on February 13 (with Ed- ouard de Reszke as Rocco* and Kalisch as Florestan ) . In Italian, and with Louis Victor Saar as conductor, Fidelio did not tempt many of those who had given it avid attention in the German period. The pattern of versatility demonstrated by the De Reszkes and Lehmann was a spur to such younger singers as Eames, who was Santuzza* when Cavalleria rusticana was first given in the Met- ropolitan (December 30), with Giulia Ravogli as Lola;* Elsa and Marguerite, as mentioned, and Micaela* on March 4. The Mascagni score made less than the expected impression on the public, though Eames was admired for a “forcible and well- considered” impersonation. Most of the comment was expended on the “curtain raiser”: a performance of Gluck’s Orfeo, with Giulia Ravogli condemned for the “vices” of her vocal style in the title role and her sister Sofia hardly better liked in her debut as Eurydice.* Odds and ends from Merlin and Asrael were uti- lized to dress the stage for Orfeo. 121 Operas and Artists, 1893-1894 Two further French operas were introduced in this season: Hamlet on February 10, with Lassalle as Hamlet,* Edouard de Reszke as Claudius,* and an American soprano, Margaret Reid, as Ophelia;* and Lakmd on February 20, in which the com- poser’s own choice for the title role, Marie van Zandt, sang with “excellent command of staccato,” and Edouard de Reszke as Nilakantha* won a repetition for his second-act solo. The “Bell Song” was also repeated. Apparently Abbey was satisfied with the response to his com- pany, for he brought it back for an extra two weeks beginning on March 28. Farewell or no, Patti was available to sing in La Traviata, Martha, Lucia, and 11 Barbiere, the last on April 9 in- cluding probably the longest “lesson scene” on record: the “Swiss Echo Song,” “Home, Sweet Home,” and “The Last Rose of Summer.” Still the applause went on, and she responded with “Cornin’ through the Rye.” The effort to satisfy the Wagner public, if not the require- ments of the language, went forward in this supplementary season with an Italian version of Der fliegende Hollander on March 31. Seidl was the conductor, Edouard de Reszke sang Daland, Lassalle was the Dutchman, and Albani was Senta. It was not repeated, which was no tragedy for a generation that could choose, on April 6, between a matinee Faust with Eames and the De Reszkes and an evening Lucia with Patti. So sated was the press with vocal miracles that no account of these per- formances appeared in the Times. “Music” for April 7, 1892 was the report of a piano recital by Franz Rummel in the concert hall of Madison Square Garden. 1893-1894 The effects, on the corporate structure of the Metropolitan, of the fire that consumed the interior on August 27, 1892 have been described elsewhere (page 56). The lapse of one year in the presentation of opera had a like effect, if hardly of so long a duration, on the artistic well-being of the enterprise. The prin- cipal outcome of the first Abbey-Grau season and the breathing- spell that followed was to tie opera at the Metropolitan much closer than it had been before to Covent Garden. Eventually, indeed, Maurice Grau became director of both theaters, in 1897. 122 The Metropolitan Opera As of the mid-nineties there was a problem common to both London and New York: how to admit the immense push of the Wagnerian literature to the common repertory without making it, as it had been in New York during the 1 88o’s, an exclusively German enterprise, or as it had been in London— and still was— an exclusively non-German enterprise. The influential press of both places thus acted, atypically, in concert, if not exactly in harmony. As early as 1891 Shaw was abusing Jean de Reszke for his “petulant laziness” (the World, July 22, 1891), resulting in the repetition of worn-out operas when “we might have been listen- ing to Siegfried and Otello.” The comment accompanied Jean’s singing of Otello for the first time, a creation Shaw found worthy, if not a complete success. Prophetically he added: “When the rivalry of younger men and the decay of his old superficial charm . . . force him to make the most of all his powers, he may yet gain more as an actor than he will lose as a singer.” Krehbiel and Henderson both joined the chorus with increasing vigor as the brothers became more closely identified with the local scene, more inclined to consider its problems their problems. For the moment, the De Reszkes continued to be, primarily, glamorous figures in the era now fondly remembered as the “golden age,” though for the older music-lovers of the 1890’s, the true golden age was the vanished era of Mario and Rubini, Lind and Faure. Few today, however, would dispute the attractions of the Faust that opened the newly decorated, freshly hung theater on November 27, 1893. Under the terms of his new agreement with the management, Abbey was required to include two from a stipulated group of six performers in each presenta- tion. The box-holders need not have worried. Faust with the two De Reszkes, Lassalle (Valentin* ) , Eames, and Olympia Guercia (Siebel,* d 1 ) was typical of the occasions to come when Grau cast six stars for almost every performance. With Luigi Mancinelli conducting, the phrase that had begun to creep into reports in the spring of 1892 was now heard on all sides: the era of the “ideal cast” had arrived. Without endorsing arson as an artistic principle, the Times guardedly remarked: 1 The symbol d indicates the debut of the singer thus marked. Operas and Artists, 1893— 1894 123 “Fire is sometimes a blessing in disguise. Last night we had not only a new Opera House, but new scenery and costumes.” It was probable, though not explicitly stated, that this Faust, finally, was in French. With such singers as Pol Planjon and Emma Calve added to the company, its resources of French singers moved ever higher. They made their debuts on the second night of the season, November 29, with Plancon’s “sonorous bass . . . suave and finished style” (Krehbiel) booming through the role of Jupiter* in Gounod’s Philemon et Baucis. Sigrid Arnoldson was Bau- cis* (d). Even Plangon’s notable art, however, had to defer to the commotion created by Calve as Santuzza.* For the first time the full force of Mascagni’s desperate heroine was liberated by “a dramatic soprano of the first rank” (the Times). Krehbiel marveled at this “woman with hot blood in her veins, whose voice takes color from the situation and occasionally sets one’s finger-tips to tingling.” Even a commonplace group of associates, and routine conducting by Enrico Bevignani, could not dim Calve’s luster. There were no such complaints on December 20 when Calve sang her Carmen* in the first performance of the work in French to be heard at the Metropolitan. With her were Jean de Reszke (Jose*), Lassalle (Escamillo*), and Eames (Micaela), with Mancinelli conducting. Appropriate, then, Henderson’s com- ment: “If any cast offered this season has justified the epithet of 'ideal,’ it was this one.” Calve’s Carmen he measured as “a crea- ture of unbridled passion, with a sensuous, suggestive grace . . . careless of all consequences.” Krehbiel, in the Tribune, was mag- netized by the frankness of her playing, which would satisfy “the most ardent lover of realism.” He did not discourage attendance with the remark: “It has but one prototype . . . and of that impersonation . . . the Prefect of Police took cognizance in Paris.” Presumably he referred to Marie-Celestine-Laurence Galli-Marie, the creator of the role. The De Reszke Jose was admirably contrasted with the Calve Carmen, “full of eloquence and grace,” said Henderson, “one of the very best . . . ever seen on the American stage.” Neither Lassalle’s “picturesque” toreador nor the charming Micaela of Eames left much to be desired. In this year of multiple Carmen 124 The Metropolitan Opera performances, Amoldson sometimes replaced Eames, with Fer- nando de Lucia and Mario Ancona as alternates for De Reszke and Lassalle. Grau had engaged Calve at a relatively small fee, and the nu- merous Cavallerias and Carmens were warmly profitable to him. Not so, however, Mascagni's delightful L’Amico Fritz, which had its Metropolitan introduction on January 10, with De Lucia (Fritz*), Calve (Suzel*), and Ancona (Rabbi*). Of the rather slim attendance, the Times remarked: “It requires a powerful cast in a strong opera to attract the public.” The cast barely qualified; the work did not. After one repetition it was not heard again until 1923. One more typical artist of the time came to contribute her share to the “strong cast” requirement when Nellie Melba sang Lucia* in her debut on December 4. Krehbiel honored the mem- ory of Sembrich by describing Melba as the “finest exponent of vocalization” heard since 1883, while Henderson hedged but slightly in saying: “If she is not the foremost colorature so- prano . . . she is certainly in the very first rank.” (He cited her vocal lineage approvingly by mentioning that Melba, like Eames and Calve, had profited from the guidance of Mathilde Mar- chesi.) Vignas (Edgardo*), Bauermeister (Alicia), and Carbone (Raimondo*) were lost in a footnote, but Mancinelli’s con- ducting drew the comment: “the orchestral part was never bet- ter played here.” Despite the critical enthusiasm, Melba was slow to become a favorite with the New York public. Her next appearance, in Thomas’s Hamlet (with Lassalle as Hamlet, Plangon as Clau- dio*) on December 6, gave the Times “great delight,” and she was well liked as the first Metropolitan Nedda* when Pagliacci was introduced on December 11 (De Lucia was Canio,* Ancona Tonio*), in Rigoletto on December 29, and in Rossini’s Semira- mide on January 12. (Several postponements preceded the last of these.) But it was her first Juliette* to Jean de Reszke’s Romeo which gave her general success with the public. The Times reported nothing notable in her dramatic conception of the role, but had outspoken praise for “the exquisite smooth- ness” of her singing, and a delivery of the waltz that “fairly de- lighted her hearers.” After great applause, she repeated the aria. Operas and Artists, 1 893-1 894 125 Few companies could post a notice of substitution for Edouard de Reszke without a good deal of audience discontent. This one managed well enough by offering Planjon as Frere Laurent. Though the roles enumerated may suggest that Melba was far from the Wagnerian trend of the time, she sang both Elisa- beth* in Tannhauser on January 29 (the Paris version in Italian) and Elsa* in Lohengrin on February 6. Neither satisfied Metro- politan standards for Wagner, though Melba surpassed expecta- tions in both parts, and Plangon was an “entirely satisfactory” Landgraf Hermann* in Tannhauser. Lassalle as Telramund* and Edouard de Reszke as King Henry were worthy enough, but the casts were otherwise spotty, the choral work was poor, the staging inept. Olga Pevny, who was called upon to replace the scheduled Venus in Tannhauser, sang in German. The only other Wagner of this season was an Italian Meistersinger first given on January 8, with Jean de Reszke and Lassalle as before, plus Eames as a “charming” Eva.* Mancinelli’s conducting proved him a “broad-minded” artist, but Plancon was a “stilted” Pogner.* Bauermeister as Magdalena and Maugiere as David* fell short of Wagner’s requirements. “Timid” was the Times word for the staging. Lovers of Meyerbeer had a series of Les Huguenots perform- ances to delight them this season, with such notable singers as Nordica, the De Reszkes, Lassalle, Arnoldson (Marguerite*), and Scalchi on December 18. Lovers of an operatic bargain noted December 22 as historic, for it offered the first pairing in Metropolitan, history of Cavalleria and Pagliacci, with Calve in the first, Melba in the second. Also historic was the appearance of two works by Mozart in the same season. Don Giovanni on December 27, with Man- cinelli conducting, was marred, said Henderson, by De Lucia’s “miserable” Ottavio* and Kate Rolla’s “mediocre” Elvira. Fursch-Madi (Donna Anna), Arnoldson (Zerlina), Lassalle (Don), and Edouard de Reszke (Leporello) were in various re- spects better, but the chorus had small idea of what it was sup- posed to do, the stage band in the ballroom scene was rarely together with the pit players. Le Nozze di Figaro went much better in its first Metropolitan performance on January 31, pos- sibly, as Henderson noted, because “its traditions are familiar to 126 The Metropolitan Opera the Italian stage.” Eames gave high promise of things to come with her Countess,* Nordica was an “intelligent” Susanna,* Amoldson a “most dainty” Cherubino.* The men were Ed- ouard de Reszke, a splendid Almaviva,* and Ancona, a Figaro* “deficient in grace and lightness.” Enrico Bevignani, who en- raged Shaw on more than a few occasions, conducted. A post-season fortnight that began on April 16 after an interval of touring recapitulated the favorite operas and casts, and added Werther to the Metropolitan repertory on April 19. Jean de Reszke as Werther* was considered the “star of the piece,” with Eames an “excellent” Charlotte,* and Arnoldson a capable Sophie.* In a final one-night recapitulation of the year’s im- pressions, Abbey and Grau instituted the custom of season- ending “galas” on April 27, with favorite acts from Romeo (Eames and both De Reszkes), Carmen , Aida, and 'Werther. Melba concluded with the “Mad Scene” from Hamlet. “Society was out in full force,” reported the Times “and the boxes gleamed with satin . . . and jewels. Of course, Lassalle had to sing the Toreador song twice.” All the stars spoke, in English or French, and Melba finally “quieted the turmoil” by singing “Home, Sweet Home.” Although it was contended, through the German period, that “Italian” opera could not be given for less than a seven-dollar top, the price scale in this year ranged from one dollar to five. Many economies were practiced, of course, in staging. The choral singing and orchestral playing were often inept, but the complaints were not severe enough to persuade Abbey and Grau to adopt other methods. A loud echo of the German period was provided on March 28 when Walter Damrosch engaged the theater for a performance of Gdtterddmmerung with Materna, Schott, and Fischer. Al- though it was the first time he had conducted the work, the Times declared that he “acquitted himself with great credit.” 1894-1895 The interest that echo aroused was soon enough to have its in- fluence on the Metropolitan as Damrosch, without operatic employment in New York, proceeded with plans for a company that would carry the gospel of Wagner to America. In the mean- Operas and Artists, 1894— 1895 127 time Abbey and Grau did quite enough for the music-loving operagoer in this season by offering Victor Maurel in the North American premiere of Falstaff, reviving Otello with Tamagno, and adding many more to the long list of “ideal” casts. As tends to happen in the routine of repertory opera, first things do not always come first. Falstaff had to be rehearsed be- fore it could be given, with the result that Maurel made his debut, on December 3, as Iago* (d) to Tamagno’s Otello* rather than in his most celebrated role. He was by no means un- known to New York, for as a young man he had been the Amonasro of the first American Aida twenty years before. But his Metropolitan debut as a mature artist earned him credit in the Times as “a truly great singing actor.” His voice was deemed not more than “good,” but it was “backed by a very fine art and an uncommon dramatic instinct.” Eugenia Mantelli as Emilia* and Eames as Desdemona* were both better than previous per- formers of these roles, and Tamagno made his usual deep im- pression as Otello.* Mancinelli’s conducting and the staging were relatively inferior. Not being what the Italian operagoer expected at a time when few others went to Italian opera, Otello and its splendid cast had but three further performances this season. Commenting on the sparse attendance at one of these, the Times said: “With all its pretensions this is not really a profoundly musical city . . . ‘Otello’ is not a work for the fashionable masses; it is too sombre, too tragic, too utterly in earnest.” By contrast, then, the gaiety and sparkle of Falstaff should have won a warm response on February 5 when New Yorkers had an opportunity to hear the last of Verdi’s scores (two years after Buenos Aires)— and the surprising fact seems to be that it did. To be sure, the cast was close to perfection, with Maurel in the part he had created at La Scala, Giuseppe Campanari a fine Ford,* Eames a notable Mistress Ford,* and Scalchi as good a Dame Quickly* as could be imagined. The press did its share with reviews that recalled the impact of Tristan— Henderson, in the Times, packed two and three-quarters agate columns with such expressions as “Happy are we to sing the praises of this in- spired old man, who carols in second childhood with all the freshness of his first youth and is worthy to be acclaimed, like 128 The Metropolitan Opera Mozart, a ‘glorious boy.' ” Krehbiel likened the score to a “per- fect sea of melodic champagne” and spoke of the “throb of de- light” that surged through the theater as one situation succeeded another. The season ended with a second repetition, on February 16, in a theater “packed to suffocation” (the Tribune), with cheers for Maurel at the final curtain that brought him out, eventually, in a dressing-gown, minus paunch. He spoke a sentence of thanks in French and then withdrew. Despite this evidence of over- whelming response (repeated in the supplementary weeks), the work was given but three times in the next season, and not again until 1908 and 1909. The next revivals were more than a dozen years apart. As the last attempt in 1948 attested, it is not the fault of the public that Falstaff has not come to the esteem of Figaro and Don Giovanni. It is the fault of management, which privately asserts its admiration for a masterwork, but will not suffer the reasonable risk of establishing it as such. Of the other “novelties,” one was not an opera in one sense, and the other was not an opera in any sense. The lack of dra- matic action which has penalized every attempt to make Saint- Saens’s Samson et Dalila palatable on the stage was quite evi- dent on February 8 when the oratorio had the services of Tamagno as Samson,* Mantelli as Dalila,* Plangon as both Abimilech* and the Old Hebrew,* and Campanari as the High Priest.* The great tenor’s trumpet tones were deemed “cold” for this music (the Times), and Mantelli did not come up to pre- vious singers heard in the concert-hall performances. One repe- tition satisfied public curiosity. Caruso and Matzenauer had more success in 1915. Hermann Bemberg’s Elaine was rather gently treated at its premiere on December 17, for it was known to be a gesture of the De Reszkes toward a favorite friend. As in the London premiere on July 5, 1892, Melba sang Elaine,* Plangon was Astolat,* with Jean de Reszke as Lancelot* and Edouard de Reszke as L’Hermite.* “Grace” and “gentle charm” were granted to the score (the Times); its lack of “passion or power” was mildly deplored. It came and went with a single repetition. Worthier, though not so prominent, was the first French Manon at the Metropolitan on January 16. Puccini’s rival work Operas and Artists, 1894-1895 129 being as yet unknown, it was described, using more of the full title of the Abbd Prevost’s nouvelle, as Manon Lescaut. A prin- cipal provocation was the appearance as Manon* of Sybil San- derson, a thirtyish native of Sacramento, California, who had won a Parisian success with her remarkable range (G above C), for which Massenet wrote Esclarmonde. She was too slight in sound, however, for the Metropolitan, and the performance was memorable for Jean de Reszke’s Chevalier des Grieux,* one of his most admired impersonations. Presumably he had never sung it elsewhere, a claim Henderson regarded with skepticism: “If it was, indeed, his first performance . it was remarkable for its freedom and certainty . it reached a height of passion which called forth . an irresistible demand for a repetition of the principal air.” Plangon as Comte de Grieux* and Ancona as Lescaut,* were satisfactory enough, but objection was en- tered to Bevignani’s “cast-iron” conducting and Miss Sander- son’s determination to wear her jewels en route to the convent in Act I. With Calve absent in this season— the small financial return that accompanied her sensational success doubtless determined her to stay away until her worth was better appreciated— empha- sis was more than ever on the men in the company. If “matinee idol” was a term still for the future, “mash note” was not. The De Reszkes (and Lassalle, when he shared quarters with them at the bygone Gilsey House) received them in every mail. In such roles as Arnold* in 'William Tell on November 21, Rhadames* on November 23, Manrico* on November 29, and Da Gama* on February 13, Tamagno added to the furore, while Maurel in- vaded some of the older hearts with his artful Rigoletto* (Shaw thought it the dramatic equal of Edwin Booth’s Triboulet) on December 7 and his incomparable Don Giovanni* on Decem- ber 31. Tamagno’s William Tell almost did not happen, for Lucille Hill was unable to sing her scheduled role of Mathilde,* and the only alternate, Libia Drog, had never performed it in public. At the evening’s end there was doubt that she had, for she came to a dead stop in “Sombre foret” finally walking off the stage. Tamagno led her back for the succeeding duet, and again she walked off. Meanwhile the audience applauded. “In Italy,” the 130 The Metropolitan Opera Times commented, "they would have tom up the seats and thrown them on the stage.” Thankfully, there were Edouard de Reszke (Fiirst) and Ancona (Tell) to help out, and when the tenor “proceeded to electrify the house with [his] magnificent declamation on a high note . . . Mme. Drog was thenceforward a nonentity.” She had the fortitude to come back two nights later to sing Aida* with “fire” and “a powerful voice . of ex- cellent quality,” but the cheers went to Tamagno. “The manner in which he enunciated several syllables, as in To rest’ a te,’ on one high B flat was simply astonishing,” Henderson reported. On the other hand, he had no compunction about “hanging over the footlights and hurling his voice into the audience with the metallic penetrativeness of an eight inch shell” (same source). The evening marked the debut of Eugenia Mantelli as Amneris* (d), the beginning of a career founded on “a sub- stantial contralto voice of fine quality.” Maurel’s forte, of course, was subtlety, as in the Don Gio- vanni* of December 31. The Times described his work “in pas- sages calling for delicacy and finesse” as “the perfection of dra- matic art,” and deemed the Don and Leporello Edouard de Reszke) “a pair never surpassed on the local stage.” Russitano was a barely respectable Ottavio,* and though the women were Nordica (Donna Anna), Eames (Elvira*), and De Lussan (Zer- lina*), none satisfied, for one reason or another. The era of ideal casts was running toward all-star casts on such occasions as December 26, when Les Huguenots reunited not only the De Reszkes, Plangon, Nordica, and Scalchi as before, but also added Melba (Marguerite* ) , and Maurel (De Nevers* ) . Melba was considered “the best Marguerite ever heard on the Metropolitan stage,” Maurel, if vocally limited, a fine figure of dramatic credibility. Grau asked, and got, seven dollars for or- chestra seats— on a theory, perhaps, of one dollar per star. When a repetition was announced for January 3, the Times noted: “It is not often that any opera house offers such an array of celeb- rities . . . the lion’s share of the credit for the . . . remarkable company . is due to Mr. Maurice Grau.” At ordinary prices, Grau combated the apathy of theatergoers toward Christmas Eve performances with an Aida in which Nor- dica, Tamagno, Plangon, and Mantelli were “bolstered” by Operas and Artists, 1894-1895 131 Marnel's first Amonasro* in several years. The voice was light; the “fire and energy” of the performance (Times) were com- pelling. Or, lacking Calve for Carmen on November 26, he atoned with Edouard de Reszke as Escamillo* and Melba as Micaela* in an “ordinary” cast, with Jean de Reszke and Zelie de Lussan (Carmen* ) . It is hardly surprising that in this era of “the best ever” Mathilde Bauermeister should rank as the “best ever” among secondary singers. In an article of 1891 in the World, Shaw named her as “probably the most indispensable member” of the Covent Garden company, and she showed why at the Met- ropolitan on February 13, 1895, when the ill-fated Lucille Hill fainted during the second act of U Africaine. Bauermeister — “she knows all the other roles as a matter of course,” calmly reported the Times — switched from Anna to Inez, and the performance proceeded. The Wagner of this season was sparse indeed— Lohengrin, on December 5, with Nordica offering the Elsa she had sung the previous summer at Bayreuth, but still in Italian — Jean de Reszke, Plancon, Mantelli as Ortrud,* and Ancona as Telramund; and Die Meistersinger in a supplementary season on April 22, with Edouard de Reszke as Sachs,* Eames, Jean de Reszke, and Plangon. It was the lull before the storm, for as early as Decem- ber 23 the Times printed a rumor that plans were in the making for a German Tristan with Nordica and Jean de Reszke, adding: “de Reszke has set his heart on appearing here in this music drama.” His serious intentions came out into the open when the Grau company went touring as February ended, and the Damrosch German Opera Company moved in for sixteen performances. De Reszke asked Krehbiel and Henderson to keep him posted on the public response to the venture, saying to the latter: “I go to Boston to sing Faust, but I will cry.” The Damrosch company was more than respectable, with such former favorites as Rosa Sucher, Fischer, and Alvary, and such favorites-to-be as the young Johanna Gadski and Marie Brema. After the opening Tristan on February 25, Henderson wrote to De Reszke: “The sooner you and Edouard sing in German, the better it will be for you, for Wagner, and for the public.” With- 132. The Metropolitan Opera out publishing any of this at the time, he stated in a Times article of March 3, 1895 the philosophical framework of the impending decision: “The great names of the Wagnerian genesis are al- ready falling into the historical past . . . Winkelmann, Scaria, Niemann, Vogl, Matema, Sucher, Brandt. . In all human probability the time is now close to us when the later dramas of Wagner will become a part of the repertory of the advanced dramatic singers of the French and German stages.” Urging the case of Wagner in German, sung by the international artists of the day, he concluded: “The performance of the Wagnerian music drama and the French and Italian opera will be improved. The former will benefit by the delivery of its perfectly singable music— once foolishly called unsingable music— with the most beautiful vocal art. The latter will gain, from the importation into its performance of German traditions . . . the dramatic illusion which is now too frequently absent. Thus a transfusion of blood in both directions will develop the general vitality of art.” Under the spur of such writing and the warm response to the Damrosch repertory (the Ring minus D as Rheingold, Tristan, Die Meistersinger, Lohengrin, and T annhauser), a petition was delivered to Abbey and Grau requesting one evening a week of German opera in the next season. While they pondered the fu- ture, the company returned for a supplementary fortnight, be- ginning with a Falstajf on April 15. It went “splendidly,” ac- cording to the Times, which called it a “great opera” that “should live as long as Le Nozze di Figaro.” Maurel was called upon to sing “Quand! ero paggio” three times. Figaro itself was heard in this post-season on April 28, with Maurel as Figaro,* Eames as the Countess, Nordica as Susanna, and Edouard de Reszke as Almaviva. Maurel’s Figaro was artistically done, but he was not really suited to the part, lacking lightness. In return for the gifts of song the company had given New Yorkers in this winter, admirers lavished it with tokens of esteem at a monster gala on April 30. Jean de Reszke received a silver candelabrum, his brother a fish fork (with a Mephisto handle), Melba a gold wreath mounted on velvet, and Tamagno a gold medallion. Bauermeister was remembered by the gentlemen of Operas and Artists, 1895— 1896 133 the Opera Club with a gold watch, and, accepting it in the midst of an applauding stage of “mastersingers”— Melba, the De Reszkes, Eames, Maurel, Tamagno— the peerless seconda hugged her prize and burst into grateful tears. 1895-1896 Grau’s approach to the problem of opera in German was much the same, in the case of Tristan und Isolde, as his approach to Les Huguenots : get the strongest possible cast and let them sing. At the urging of some of his journalistic advisers, and with the tangible proof of interest by some two thousand petitioners that opera in German be made a Thursday-night feature (the sub- scription series did not include either Tuesday or Thursday), he engaged Anton Seidl 1 to conduct. Thus, for the next few years, the Metropolitan had a reprise of the excitement that had attended the introduction of the Wagner works a decade before. Now, however, the revelation came not from the work itself ( Tristan in this season, Siegfried, Gotterddmmerung, and Die Meistersinger in the several seasons soon to come) but from the curve of line, the accent of phrase that could be imparted to the “unsingable” music by artists who knew how. As Lehmann still preferred Germany to America, the first Isolde* of the new order, on November 27, 1895, was Lillian Nordica, with Jean de Reszke as Tristan. Her performance, said the Times, “simply amazed those who thought they had meas- ured the full limit of her powers.” The credit to both principal artists embraced clarity of word as well as purity of tone. “Never before,” wrote Krehbiel in the Tribune, “have we had a Tristan able to sing the declamatory music . . . with correct intona- tion, to say nothing of the duet of the second act. . To- gether they gave the text with a distinctness . . . that enabled those familiar with the German tongue to follow the play.” For 1 Seidl had a hand in another event of consequence this year, when he directed the first American performance of Humperdinck’s Hansel und Gretel at Daly’s Theater on October 8. The cast was poorish, however (only Jacques Bars as Peter was of sizable repute) , and an English text was used. The score was much admired. 1 34 The Metropolitan Opera Henderson, Edouard de Reszke’s Marke* was “vocally stupen- dous,” and Seidl conducted “gloriously.” Brema and Kaschmann completed the cast. Something of the De Reszkes’ approach to the task they had assumed should be known, if only to explain the time lag until the urging of their well-intentioned critics took effect. Paderew- ski, as we have seen (page 118) came to America for the first time in 1891. As of that time, the De Reszkes did not speak German, for when the pianist returned shortly after this Tristan and heard a mutual friend express admiration for the fluency of Jean’s German, he exclaimed: “But that is not so. Jean does not speak German.” A few moments later De Reszke joined the group, was greeted by Paderewski in German, and conversed fluently with him. In other words, they were not content merely to learn the words of the part, but felt obligated to know and speak the tongue— which, it was later disclosed, they had done in private for two years before this Tristan. Seidl’s contribution to the mu- sical success of the undertaking could hardly be overvalued. He worked tirelessly with them in rehearsals. An eyewitness (Hen- derson) painted a word-picture of such an occasion when, he re- lated: “Jean, in morning coat and bowler hat was declaiming a passage and Seidl stopped for a correction. De Reszke walked to the footlights, removed the hat and said ‘Yes, Herr Direktor?’ Then he went back and did it the way Seidl suggested.” Shortly after the performance (November 30), the Times printed a lengthy analysis by Henderson of the way in which Jean de Reszke’s Tristan differed from his predecessors’. “Not even Niemann showed a truer conception of the part . . . he never approached the Polish singer in the tenderness, the melt- ing fervency of his love-song. . . . The splendid dignity and mournful power of . . . de Reszke's . . . ‘Was Morold dir so werth’ . . . has never been surpassed.” Act II was made for the great Faust and Romeo. In Act III, he continued: “This final scene of Tristan has been presented . as a series of painful shouts and ejaculations . . . de Reszke’s incomparable skill in the management of the vocal organs overcame all . . . difficul- ties. . . . It is enough. M. de Reszke has demonstrated that Wagner can be sung.” Operas and Artists, 1895-1896 135 This overshadowing event was repeated five times with, if any- thing, increasing effect. The first of the ten Thursday perform- ances occurred on December 5, in the presence of a largely German-speaking audience, which, according to the Times, “passed expert opinion on the performance” and did not find it lacking. The successive performances in German, however, were sadly inferior. Adolf Wallnofer was an indifferent Sieg- mund* for Die 'Walkiire on January 8, and Kaschmann a poor- ish Wotan.* Rosa Olitzka (Fricka*) and Marie Brema (Briinn- hilde* ) sustained a reasonable standard, but the comparison with the Tristan was painful. An audience that came to a special performance on December 19 and found notice that Jean de Reszke, Nordica, and Brema were ill might well have felt cheated. Georgine van Januschowsky sang a passable Isolde* and Olitzka’s Brangane* was even praised. But to say Wallnofer was no De Reszke would be distortion; he was also no Tristan.* Tann- hduser, Fidelio, and Lohengrin also turned up in the Thursday sequence, mostly ill sung. As a new variant, Lohengrin was given in both Italian and German this season. Nordica and the two De Reszkes sang in an Italian performance on November 22 (Seidl conducting), in a German one on January 2. The choice of language seemed to turn on the singers of Ortrud and Telramund; they were Man- telli and Ancona in the first, Brema and Kaschmann in the second. Die Meistersinger remained steadfastly in Italian in its only performance on February 10. Lola Beeth sang Eva* in a cast otherwise similar to that of the previous season. “When,” plaintively inquired the Times, “are we going to have Melba as Eva?” The unrequested Brunnhilde in Siegfried came before that— and no other Wagner. Calve’s return as a recognized star provided not only a full quota of splendid Carmens and Santuzzas, but also the investiga- tion of such additional specialties as Anita* in La Navarraise (Massenet had written it for her) on December 11, Leila* in Les Pecheurs de perles on January 11 (the first two acts only. La Navarraise following), and the two roles of Margherita and Helen of Troy in Boito's Mefistofele on January 15. Mantelli sang Martha* and Pantalis,* and Edouard de Reszke was as re- markable an Italian Mefistofele* as a French Mephistopheles. In ! The Metropolitan Opera all of these, Calves ability to color her voice, especially her use of the “voix blanche ,” was deeply impressive, her gamut as an ac- tress widely admired. She succeeded, even, in giving interest to Thomas’s Hamlet with her acting virtuosity as Ophelia* on December 4, showing a conception quite different from the merely spectacular vocalization of Melba or Van Zandt. When a chorus girl picked up the bouquets tossed to Calvd as she lay unconscious and buried her amid a shower of flowers, the critics thought the action suspiciously “unpremeditated,” but the pub- lic became greatly attached to her version of the part. In place of “ideal casts” (oddly, no one thought of referring to Tristan thus), Grau contrived a new spurt to business at “Patti prices,” as they were called. Foreshadowed by the seven- dollar top for the Huguenots of the previous season, they were billed as “Nights of the Seven Stars,” and included the same list of singers in the same work on January 8: Nordica, Melba, Scalchi, the De Reszkes, Plangon, and Maurcl. Maurcl’s season was scarcely a triumph, for his vocal shortcomings left him “merely a name” as Escamillo in Carmen on November 23, and his Valentin in Faust on December 21 did not match expecta- tions. “His days of bel canto,” observed the Times, “are over.” On the other hand, he was still the master fat knight when Falstaff came back on January 22. Frances Savillc, who had made charming use of a light voice at the opening Romdo on Novem- ber 18, was an attractive Mistress Ford,* with Scalchi and Cam - panari as before. This performance fared well, but a repetition on February 8 unfortunately followed a star-studded Les Hugue- nots in the afternoon. Commenting on the crowded auditorium for Meyerbeer, the Times noted: "Several people were carried out in a fainting condition.” In the evening “one of the most artistic . . . works of recent years was given to an audience which occupied less than one-half the auditorium.” Manon was added to the Melba repertory on January 27, when the combination of her ease and De Reszke’s striking Des Grieux “made the public cup of happiness run over,” according to the Times. All was not so pleasant to the reviewer. “Mine. Melba,” he wrote “has the voice of a lark, and— so far as her singing is evidence— the soul of one also.” For Mantelli, Grau arranged the Operas and Artists, 1895— 1896 137 first Metropolitan performance of La Favorita on November 29. Her Leonora* struck fire with a powerful performance of “O mio Fernando” despite “a great tremolo” (the Times). Plangon was Baldassare;* Giuseppe Cremonini showed a pale voice of light caliber in his debut as Fernando;* and the durable Bevignani conducted. A temporal tempest raged in the press of this winter because of Grau’s refusal to lease the Metropolitan to Damrosch for an- other season, mostly of Wagner, while the resident company toured. Not to be daunted, Damrosch took his company into the absurdly inadequate Academy of Music on March 2 for several weeks. Two new singers of great qualities came to the attention of New Yorkers during this series. Katharina Klafsky made her debut as Leonore* in Fidelio on the opening night, and Milka Ternina sang in Lohengrin on March 4 in a way to make the Times say that “the only Elsa to compare with her was Christine Nilsson.” Oddly, these two luminaries were destined to shine but a short while: Klafsky died suddenly the following Septem- ber in Germany at the age of forty-one, and Temina, who had a brilliant career at the Metropolitan for several seasons, had to re- tire because of ill health while still a young woman. As well as the customary Ring dramas, Tannhauser, and Die Meistersinger, Damrosch’s season included his own Scarlet Letter on March 6, with Gadski as Hester Prynne. It was Henderson’s view that “criticism . . . ought to be friendly and encouraging,” and the matter may be left at that. Such a list of artists as Abbey and Grau offered the New York public this season (with the famous Tristan) might seem a reasonable answer to a critic’s dream. Henderson, however, had his own complaint to register in a Times article of February 22. The season was devoid of novelties, save the unimportant La Navarraise , leaving the critics “with nothing to criticize except singing. . If the managers of the opera, instead of offering great star casts, alternating with ‘off nights’ were to engage a company of less celebrated, but competent artists, and make the production of operas the central feature of their system, the course of the critics would certainly change. . . . But, as Messrs. Abbey and Grau say . . . they are not ‘in the operatic business 138 The Metropolitan Opera for their health.’ They frankly say they cannot afford to comply with the demands of the critics, when the paying public is mak- ing a wholly different demand.” Gatti, perhaps, had the answer— on a much later occasion — when an assistant informed him of adverse reviews of a perform- ance to which his company had given much effort. “The critics —pah!” he said. “They have to criticize.” 1896-1897 In the season of his first appearance as Tristan, Jean de Reszke had also sung Lohengrin (German and Italian), Romeo, Faust, Rhadames, the Chevalier des Grieux, Don Jose, and Raoul in the language of the composer, also Walther von Stolzing in Italian. Singular though this repertory was, and remains, it was but the beginning of the task he had set for himself: to interpret . all the great Wagnerian roles before he retired. The objective for this season was Siegfried , with Jean in the title role and Edouard de Reszke as the Wanderer.* For them, December 30 marked a triumph; for Melba, who sang her first and only Briinnhilde,* it was a disaster. For Grau, it was but one among many blows that made this season his most difficult. He was in a desperate way for a dramatic soprano even before the season began, for Nordica declined a contract when she dis- covered that Melba insisted on exclusive rights to Briinnhilde. Lehmann, though available for America again, was committed to Damrosch, and Klafsky, who might have solved the problem, was dead of an operation for a head injury suffered from a fall during the previous season. On October 17, 1896 Grau’s partner, Henry Abbey, died. As if all these problems were not enough, Melba’s prepara- tion for Briinnhilde limited her availability in the early weeks of the season, and the strain she suffered (plus an attack of influ- enza) permitted but a single appearance thereafter. When she felt unable to sing for the seventh time on January 18, she asked to be released from her contract. Only then could Grau utilize Eames, for example, as Juliette; for that, too, was reserved for Melba. Much as has been written about the Melba Briinnhilde, her reasons for undertaking a role so foreign to her equipment and Operas and Artists, i8g6-i8gy 139 experience are still obscure. The contention of Jean de Reszke’s biographer, Clara Leiser, that he meant her to sing the Forest Bird, and that she misunderstood, has an element of plausibility. Those who were nearer the scene, however, thought otherwise. Even before the event, the Times took note of Nordica’s appear- ance in concert to say: “Whether M. Jean de Reszke advised that Mme. Melba should sing Briinnhilde or not, it is wrong that anything should come between the public and Mme. Nordica.” The mystery extends, actually, to the kind of performance Melba gave. Siegfried Briinnhildes traditionally receive short shrift in the daily press because they appear so late and are on stage for a relatively short time. Henderson, in the Times, re- ferred to the singer’s “nervousness,” then said: “The quality of her voice and her style of singing are not suited to a complete embodiment of Briinnhilde . . . her ambition . . . was more potent than wise.” Krehbiel took another tack: “Mme. Melba’s share in the performance cannot be discussed even in general terms.” Writing in Chapters of Operas years later (1908), he speaks of the “difference in power and expressiveness between the higher and lower registers” of her voice as “pitifully obvious.” In an unsigned review in the Evening Post the picture was much brighter. There is no reason to doubt that the writer was Henry T. Finck, who said (after twelve hundred words devoted to the De Reszkes) : “Mme. Melba made such a wide departure from her specialty that it would have been a marvel had she risen fully to the occasion. . . . The difficult awakening scene was somewhat constrained but in the love scene she caught the inspiration from the tenor’s radiant countenance and youthful ardor. . . . Her voice, too, while as yet hardly strong enough for the climax . . . had an unusual touch of fervor and a beauty all its own. Her success with the public was undoubted.” If the success was “undoubted,” it was nevertheless unre- peated. My contribution to the clouded picture is a quotation from her biography, Percy Colson’s Melba, an Unconventional Biography (London: Grayson & Grayson; 1932). Exhausted and tearful, Melba asked for Grau after the curtain fell and implored him: “Tell the critics I am never going to do that again. It is beyond me. I have been a fool.” If these words were repeated, it would explain why kindness prevailed in the published accounts. 140 The Metropolitan Opera In any case, there was the welcome alternative of extolling the new triumphs of the De Reszkes. For the Times, Jean’s young Siegfried* was “one of the master creations of the century,” Edouard’s Wanderer* “one of the greatest successes of his ca- reer.” The Post (Finck) noted: “Jean de Reszke loves his Sieg- fried as one loves a bride. For that character he sacrificed what neither Lohengrin nor Tristan made him give up— his mous- tache.” On a later occasion (see page 161) De Reszke was not so meticulous. By contrast with the Siegfrieds of the previous decade, this splendid production was notable for its lack of native German singers. Only Adolph von Hiibbenet (Mime, d,* ) was German- born. Of the others, both David Bispham (Alberich* ) and Sophie Traubman (Forest Bird) were American, Castelmary (Fafner*) was French, and Seidl, who conducted, Hungarian. That this season of Siegfried should also be the year in which Henderson invented his famous description of the Metropolitan as das Faustspielhaus may seem more than ordinarily incongru- ous. However Melba’s control of certain other roles and a se- quence of happenings that drove the repertory in odd directions were all involved in inordinate repetitions of Gounod’s master- work. It opened the season on November 16, with Melba, the usual number of De Reszkes, and Lassalle as Valentin; Eames had her turn on December 23, and Calve was Marguerite* on January 4. This being the night of Mrs. Astor’s annual ball, the audience was more than usually bejeweled. Perhaps by contrast, Calve’s singing of the “Jewel Song” seemed, to the Times, “posi- tively bad.” There was the making, however, of an unusual char- acterization in her transformation from “girlish innocence” to a “pathetic figure of a remorseful woman,” and it grew to be one of her most admired roles. Even when the De Reszkes were inactive on January 29, Grau found it profitable to give Faust with Calve, Thomas Salignac (Faust*), and Plangon. “The audience heard the Veau d’Or twice,” commented the Times, “so why should one find fault?” When Faust was given for the tenth time on February 17, with Calvd once more, Henderson was ready. The heading was inno- cent enough: “Faust the last time. Heard by an audience which jammed the Opera House.” Then, without further warning: Operas and Artists, 1896-1897 141 “Far hence in the future when a guide of cosmopolitan misinforma- tion is escorting Macaulay’s New Zealander through the excavations on Manhattan Island, they will pause at the ruins of a vast audi- torium on upper Broadway, and the New Zealander will say: ‘I sup- pose this was the arena.’ The guide will reply: ‘No, it was the sacred Faustspielhaus.’ Macaulay’s New Zealander, knowing German, will say: ‘You mean Festspielhaus, don’t you?’ And the guide will answer: ‘No, honored Sir, the Festspielhaus was in Germany, where they played dramas by one Vogner. Here, they played “Faust,” and it is, therefore, the Faustspielhaus.’ And the New Zealander will marvel gjreatly.” Perhaps it was sheer desperation that impelled the same writer, in the Times of February 24, to suggest a project for Grau’s next season: a revival of H.M.S. Pinafore, with Melba (Josephine), Eames (Hebe), Calv6 (Little Buttercup), Jean de Reszke (Ralph Rackstraw), Lassalle (Captain Corcoran), Bispham (Sir Joseph Porter), Edouard de Reszke (Dick Deadeye), and An- cona (Boatswain’s Mate), with Seidl conducting. “There is available,” he appended, “a translation in German.” This season was well remembered because of Melba’s failure in Siegfried, but it might have been recalled for a triumph in La Traviata had she been content to leave well enough alone with her Violetta* on December 20. “She sang superbly,” reported the Times, “at times gloriously, and with an utter freedom of style.” Her acting was not remarkable, but “as good as it was un- expected . it can be said that the new Violetta is quite com- petent to fill the place of the one [Patti] who has passed her prime.” Cremonini (Alfredo*) and Ancona (Germont*) were no more than routine. With neither Nordica nor a reasonable replacement at hand, the Wagner repertory labored from the very start. The logic of having Mancinelli conduct Meister singer, even in Italian, when Seidl was available, did not appeal to the press, nor did Plancon’s Pogner on November 18. The fine artist David Bispham was hailed in his debut as Beckmesser* (d), a part in which he was to be admired many times in the future. Tannhduser, two nights later, was given in a mixture not only improbable, but unfathom- able: basically, it was French (Eames as Elisabeth, Plancon as the Landgraf, Lassalle as Wolfram*), but Engle sang Venus in 142 The Metropolitan Opera Italian, and Jules Gogny, the Tannhauser* (d) varied from one to the other. The first appearance of Eames as a singer of Ger- man occurred in a Lohengrin on November 27, her singing of Elsa’s music in the balcony scene being described as “flawless musical perfection” (the Times). Her enunciation of the text was rather less expert. Here, too, may be noted the beginning of the great admiration for Jean de Reszke’s Lohengrin. Recon- sidered “in the light of his Tristan,” the Times said, “it is no longer a sentimental chevalier but a devoted hero.” The chorus, singing in Italian, was both pathetic and apathetic. With or without Melba, Siegfried had to be given to justify the time and money spent on its preparation. On January 2, F£lia Litvinne (the sister of fidouard de Reszke’s wife) went on, also singing Isolde* on January 14. An earnest artist, she never- theless performed “with all the faults which we used to bear so patiently in those German days following the departure of Lilli Lehmann,” the Times complained. Matters were even worse, however, on February 6, with Litvinne ill, and a sold-out theater for the matinee. Georgine von Januschowsky (see page 135) was alerted to take her place, but it was hardly Wagner of the kind the audience expected. On the same evening Eames sang a German Elsa in Lohengrin, the rest of the cast singing Italian. Louis Victor Saar conducted. The notion that the Metropolitan public would support a midweek matinee was investigated by Grau with a series of per- formances on Wednesdays, beginning with Melba and the De Reszkes in Faust on November 21. Even at reduced prices, the attendance was limited. The sequence ended with Don Giovanni on December 16, which at least had the effect of testing Bauer- meister’s resourcefulness once again. With Engle ill, she went on as Zerlina.* To appease the critical appetite for “novelties,” Grau offered Massenet’s Le Cid on February 12. It also exhibited the De Reszkes in two roles they had created in Paris ten years before (Jean as Rodrigue,* fidouard as Don Diegue*) and the original Comte de Gormas,* Plangon. This, the Times made clear, was not the kind of novelty wanted, terming the score “a deadly piece of weariness,” redeemed only by the singing and an attrac- tive ballet. Operas and Artists, i 8 g 6 -i 8 gy 143 For a season that began in dissension and proceeded with dis- aster, only the worst could suffice; and it occurred during a per- formance of Marta on February 10. For the only time in a his- tory of countless stage deaths at the Metropolitan, a performer expired in public view, and so ironically pertinent was his col- lapse that Armand Castlemary was loudly applauded as he gasped his last. The action at the end of Act II calls for Tristano to run about the stage and stumble. The exertion was too much for the sixty-three-year-old baritone, and he died in the arms of Jean de Reszke, who had been watching the performance from the wings. What with the death of his partner, the collapse of Melba, and the general feeling that reorganization of the company was called for, Grau decided to suspend activities at the Metropoli- tan for one year. A brief post-season series concluded on April 20 with a benefit for Miss Kitty K. Abbey, daughter of the late co- manager, and the news that Grau’s lease had been renewed for a three-year period. It was perhaps with a view to having a tenant for part of the next season that Grau opened the house to the Damrosch com- pany on March 9 for a spell of opera in German. Lehmann, “grown to the proportions of Materna,” the Times had to recog- nize, sang Briinnhilde in the opening Walkiire, with Gadski, Fischer, and a reputable German artist of the day, Ernst Kraus as Siegmund* (d) . Other persons and events that foreshadowed later happenings were Gadski as Elisabeth in Tannhduser on March 12, a Lohengrin on March 15 in which Lehmann sang Ortrud to Nordica’s Elsa, and a Siegfried on March 24 in which Nordica showed what she might have done as Briinnhilde. The casts were otherwise of erratic quality, with a persistent indispo- sition of Kraus causing Kalisch to appear in roles (Siegmund particularly) which he would have preferred not to sing. One of the attractions of the season was meant to be Xavier Schar- wenka’s Mataswintha, with Kraus as King Witichs. It was finally given with Gerhard Stehmann, a baritone, in the role, and the composer— unfortunate man!— conducting “with authority.” The date was April 1. 144 The Metropolitan Opera THE MAURICE GRAU OPERA COMPANY, 1897-1903 1897-1898 The year’s interval in the work of the resident company allowed for many things, not the least of them innumerable articles in the press analyzing the state of Metropolitan opera and, for the most part, finding it not good. To the last, it was imagined that Grau would give a season after all; when he did not, there were rumors that he was influenced by the unavailability of Melba or Jean de Reszke or both. This merely confirmed the onlookers in their opinion that the present star-system was even worse than the preceding one, when the public would go to hear Patti or Albani regardless of the work in which they appeared. “That was bad,” contended the Times, “but it was practical.” In the program evolved by Abbey and Grau, the previous mediocrity of staging, orchestral playing, and ballet was not measurably improved; now the public would re- spond only to four, five, or six stars. Others, no matter how able, would not be accepted in a “Melba part” or a “Calvd part.” Perhaps the commentators were too close to the whole epoch to value its virtues as well as to evaluate its short-comings. At our distance, the high points may stand out with greater clarity. But it is quite clear that the modem concept of a repertory theater had not yet emerged. R igoletto, Lucia, and II Trovatore were damned as “old” works whose day had gone, rather than valued as vital expressions that would be welcome in just proportion to other kinds of writing. Wagner was not a unique master, but an “advanced” writer in whose image future opera would have to be created. “Italian” singers would not leam new roles; “Ger- man” singers would. Lurking in the wings were the forces of a new era— Puccini, Strauss, Debussy; but to the musical thinkers of New York in the nineties Puccini was an imitation Mascagni, Strauss a composer of ridiculously overorchestrated tone poems, Debussy barely a name. Walter Damrosch had his most extensive opportunity up to this time to show his hand as an opera impresario when the Damrosch-Ellis Grand Opera Company undertook a five-week series beginning on January 17, 1898. The hyphenation respected the presence in the company of Melba, whose services in the Operas and Artists, 1897-1898 145 United States were controlled by the Boston manager Charles A. Ellis. She was, indeed, the Violetta of the opening Traviata, with Salignac and Campanari, Bimboni conducting. Although the Times acknowledged that “no such voice has been heard since Patti was in her prime,” there was complaint about the “rough edges” of her legato. The old esteem for Marcella Sembrich, and the veneration to come, had lately been stimulated by her re- appearance in concert (October 26) after fifteen years’ absence. In that light, Melba’s lapses were “the more notable just now because a perfect legato has recently been heard.” Mme Melba was both the pleasure and the pain of the non- German repertory of this company. Marguerite in Faust and Rosina in II Barbiere were pleasures on the order of her Violetta, but there was no precedent for her Aida on January 24 save her Briinnhilde in Siegfried. It was alien to her “voice, her style, and her temperament,” wrote Henderson in the Times. He thought the clue to the unfathomable mystery of Melba’s abuse of “one of the most precious gifts that Heaven ever put in a human throat” was a desperate quest for new roles. “The public,” he was convinced, “can no longer be beguiled to go . to old- fashioned Italian opera.” That the savior for Melba would be such “new-fashioned” opera as Puccini’s La Boh&me could not yet have occurred to anyone. For his part of the season, Damrosch conducted a Tannhauser on the second night, January 18, in which Kraus, again in good voice, was a welcome associate for Gadski, Bispham, and Fischer; and Damrosch proceeded with most of the Ring, Die Meister- singer, Der fliegende Hollander, and so on. Nordica sang the Walkiire and Gotterddmmerung Briinnhildes for the first time this season. Both were warmly admired as instances of excellent singing, but the temperament of the young goddess was not hers. In Gotterddmmerung, attention was directed to her “splendid vigor” in the opening duet and to her fine intelligence in the spear scene. Nothing needed to be said of her “Immolation Scene,” as she had sung it often and well in concert. There was some disposition to tax the absent Grau company with the “Ger- man spirit” of the Damrosch-Ellis group, but it could not go too far. On the occasion of this Gotterddmmerung, for example, the Times noted that the “orchestra played most of the music in a 146 The Metropolitan Opera rather slovenly way.” It was hardly surprising, for in its series of New York Symphony concerts the same orchestra had played that afternoon Beethoven’s “Eroica" Symphony, the Serenade for Wind Instruments by Richard Strauss, and sundry other things. Moreover, the Times found the “glorification” of individual singers “mere silliness.” They were “almost as famous as prize fighters.” Even Jean de Reszke was held in too high esteem, with such talk as opera “depending on M. de Reszke. . . . Someday he will retire. . . . Shall there be no more cakes and ale? Non- sense! There will still be men to sing Faust and there will be people who never heard Jean de Reszke and who will think these men great.” The year of opera was at an end, but not the events of influ- ence on opera. After but the briefest illness, Seidl died of food- poisoning on March 28, 1898. There had been no place for him at the Metropolitan during the Damrosch season, but he had been prominent as conductor of the Philharmonic. He intro- duced Dvorak’s “New World” Symphony to New York, of course, and was admired for his conducting of Tchaikovsky, Brahms, and other “contemporaries.” Summing up the influence on musical taste in New York of a man not yet fifty, the Times said: “His death could never have been timely. It could not have been more untimely than it was. . . . The work must go on, though the worker is silent. . . . Those of us who remain must try to do what we can to make the future bloom with fruit from the labors of Anton Seidl.” Virtually every prominent mu- sician in New York took part in the funeral services at the opera house on March 31. The contention that Italian singers would not learn new roles was rather shaken in the later weeks of this music season when La Boheme was given for the first time in New York in Wallack’s Theater on Herald Square. The grandly titled Royal Italian Grand Opera Company that gave New Yorkers their first ex- perience with the much-beloved music on May 16 was wholly Italian, with Giuseppe Agostini as Rodolfo, Linda Montanari as Mimi, and Cleopatra Vincini as Musetta. Some obvious parallels between La Traviata and La Boheme were drawn in the Times, which described the music as “of the new Italian school. It is like Operas and Artists, 1898-1899 147 that of Mascagni and Leoncavallo. Yet one can fancy he sees Verdi smiling through his beard. . He knows that when these things are dead and buried beyond all redemption, foolish people will go to hear his ‘Traviata’ and wise ones will shout bravo at his wonderful ‘Falstaff.’ ” Yet the Times noted “an abundance of melody in this ‘Boheme.’ There is grace, there is force, there is even passion at times. But there is not much soul to it after all.” The performance, loud and crude, made an effect; a “refined” performance, it was surmised, would make a much better one. It was nearly three years before Melba discovered that she could do with Mimi what she could not do with Briinnhilde and Aida. Then, in fact, a new influence came to bear on the Metro- politan, where it still abides. 1898-1899 The creation of the Maurice Grau Opera Company to replace the dissolved firm of Abbey, Schoeffel, and Grau wrought changes more profound than those concerned only with business and fi- nance. The direction of Covent Garden (at the suggestion of Jean de Reszke) had come under Grau’s control in 1897, and the actual if informal connection of opera in New York and London became factual and formal. Thus he was better able to command the best singers of the world than any individual be- fore or since. Of the day’s major celebrities, only Calve was not on this season’s roster. But Melba and Sembrich were, also Lehmann and Nordica, Marie Brema and a new contralto, Ernestine Schumann-Heink; not only the De Reszkes and Maurel and Plangon, but also Anton Van Rooy, one of the greatest of Wag- nerian baritones, and Ernest Van Dyck, the Dutch tenor to whom Shaw had referred (see page 122) in 1891 as one of the “younger men” who might spur Jean from his “lethargy.” This powerful personnel made some mourn more than ever the passing of Seidl; but Grau went to extremes to provide a suitable replacement for him in Franz Schalk. At thirty-five, Schalk was just the age at which his predecessor had come to New York, and he would rise to eminence as director of the Vienna State Opera. Schalk’s way of conducting Wagner was 148 The Metropolitan Opera not always what the critics deemed appropriate, but he was an important factor in some long-cherished experiences. Among these was the first complete Ring cycle in Metropoli- tan history. It was Seidl’s conviction that uncut performances were appropriate only at Bayreuth, Munich, or another festival. Henderson stated his view on January 22, 1899: “I am first, last, and all the time in favor of the customary cuts.” He also com- plained, however, when the Norn scene was omitted from a non- cyclical performance of Gotterdammerung on February 3, posing the perennial problem not only of whether to cut, but of what. No ready formula exists for pleasing everyone. One of the revelations of the Rheingold that began the se- quence on January 13 was the Loge* of Van Dyck, quite the best ever heard till that time from “an actor of rare and brilliant skills” (the Times) . Van Rooy’s Wotan* left “nothing to be de- sired,” likewise Schumann-Heink's Erda.* Eames gave a fresh impulse to her career with an unexpectedly emotional Sieglinde* in the Walkure of January 17, with Brema as Briinnhilde, and Lempiere Pringle (Hunding) joining Van Dyck and Van Rooy (Wotan*). Lehmann was the Siegfried Briinnhilde on Janu- ary 19, with Dippel (Siegfried*) and Van Rooy (the Wan- derer* ) ; Nordica took the part in the Gotterdammerung of Janu- ary 24, in which the De Reszkes (Jean as Siegfried,* Edouard as Hagen*) appeared for the first time. Despite this awaited hap- pening Schumann-Heink’s Waltraute* compelled the Times to declare: “No greater piece of declamation has ever been heard on the stage here.” Praise for Edouard’s Hagen was equally lavish, but the first appraisals of Jean’s elder Siegfried were much more guarded. The music of the first act lay low for him (though he was originally a baritone, he chose not to sing Siegmund for the same reason), but he improved in the second act. The death scene, wonder- fully characterized, had the memory of Niemann’s to contend with. Schalk’s conducting was better liked than in previous Ring dramas. He was uniformly respected for knowledge and preci- sion, but found wanting in temperament— by the Seidl standard. That lack could not have been a grievous one, for he was the conductor of one performance, at least, remembered through the lifetime of some who were present. That was a Tristan on Janu- Operas and Artists , 1898-1899 149 ary 7, with De Reszke and Lehmann, Brema as Brangane, and Van Rooy as Kurvenal.* Years later, in Berlin, Henderson asked the aging Lehmann if she remembered an afternoon Tristan when (as quoted by Leiser) “ 'everything was perfection, when the audience seemed breathless. . . .* ‘I remember it well,’ said the great Isolde. ‘It was the ideal Tristan performance of my life.’ ” They sang together in no other season in New York, and in no other matinee Tristan. In his account the next day Henderson wrote: “Not a sound could be heard in the auditorium save the music. . . . After such a performance, criticism is weak for want of superlatives. [Lehmann’s] voice was simply marvelous in its beauty of tone, its radiant color, its breadth, its tenderness. . In the duet she and M. de Reszke gave such an exhibition of masterly sing- ing as has never been excelled.” Only one other audience, on February 1, shared the experience. Lehmann was thereafter busy with other things, and Nordica sang Isolde. Between the two Isoldes, Lehmann took up a singular kind of challenge and met it with her unfailing distinction. Brema found herself in dubious voice for Fricka in Das Rheingold on Janu- ary 27, and decided at three in the afternoon that she could not perform. The only possible alternates were Rhinemaidens, who could not be spared. Lehmann, who had studied the part but never sung it, agreed to try. She was, according to the Times , “eminently satisfactory.” So far as I know, this was the begin- ning and end of Lehmann’s history as Fricka* in Das Rhein- gold . 1 It is easy to comprehend, in the impact of such events, why Krehbiel should have written, after a Lohengrin on January 8: “Fortunate public, destined to be the envy of future genera- tions!” Nordica and the De Reszkes were the keystones of the cast, as on numerous occasions before; but Schumann-Heink made her debut as Ortrud* in a manner to merit comparison with Brandt, Fursch-Madi, and Lilli Lehmann. The Wagnerian emphasis was present from the opening with Tannhauser on No- 1 Actually, Lehmann took on the task rather than let her sister Marie, who was spending the winter in New York, jeopardize her pension rights in Vienna by singing an unauthorized performance for Grau. “Riezl” was a thoroughly experienced Fricka, and helped Lilli get the part in hand. 1 50 The Metropolitan Opera vember 29, with Van Dyck (Tannhauser,* d),Nordica (Venus), Eames, Plangon (now a German Landgraf ), and Albers (a rather poor Wolfram). Mancinelli’s conducting was of a familiar, not too stimulating sort. Matters improved when Schalk made his debut in Die Walkiire on December 14. The advent of Sembrich gave Grau no less than six able-to- brilliant Juliettes to join such men as the De Reszkes and Saleza; and the Gounod score took up the box-office slack left by the ab- sence of Calv6 and Carmen. Sembrich was the soprano on De- cember 26 when Jean de Reszke was welcomed, after an absence of a year and a half, and “a loud and prolonged burst of ap- plause . . . seldom . . . heard in any theater in New York.” After the balcony scene the new Juliette* and the old Romeo were called out eight times. Melba (no longer dictating casts to Grau) sang it on December 2, Suzanne Adams followed on Janu- ary 4, and Eames on January 14. Adams was greeted by Krehbiel as “one of the latest illustrations of America’s capacity for pro- ducing lovely voices,” while Henderson termed her “generally immature.” In after years the latter critic cited her on several occasions as the kind of singer who would have been a star in the 1920’s, but was just a satellite in this particular constellation. Sembrich’s first season as a mature artist was a series of mu- sical and dramatic triumphs which clearly explains why she be- came such a favorite with the public and the press. Her Rosina* on November 31 gave her rank as a charming comedienne, and as Violetta on December 5 she was likened to “Adelina Patti . . . in her palmy days” (the Times ) . “Sempre libera,” ending with a “clear, mellow E flat in alt,” had to be repeated. Her art added to the attractions of Le Nozze di Figaro and Don Giovanni, both given with remarkable casts. In the former, on December 16, her Susanna* matched Eames’s Countess superbly, and Sembrich even made sense of an “inescapable” repetition of the letter duet by showing the audience that a blot of ink on the page made it necessary to rewrite the letter. Bevignani waved a rather limp stick at such other singers as Edouard de Reszke ( Almaviva ) , Campanari (Figaro), and De Lussan (Cherubino). Save for re- lying on the same undistinguished conductor, Grau spared no cost to make his Don Giovanni distinguished on January 2, 1899. Lehmann’s Donna Anna no longer had the ease of old, but “the Operas and Artists , 1898-1899 151 nobility of her style remains,” said the Times. Nordica’s Elvira was not at her best in the arias, for she was vocally out of form, but the ensembles went splendidly. Zerlina was a role that Sem- brich had sung fifteen years before, but not nearly so well. The men were Salignac (a “tolerable” Ottavio) , Maurel, and Edouard de Reszke (Leporello). How did these performances compare with those of the fine court theaters of the day: Dresden, Vienna, Munich, Berlin? In the view of one with such background (Henderson), Grau “solved the problem in a very satisfactory manner by omitting those factors usually found in the subsidized opera houses— namely fine chorus, orchestra, ballet, and mise-en-scene— and providing what the kindly aid of Government never secures— namely, the services of the world’s greatest singers.” This was spoken of a Don Giovanni on January 21, in which Sembrich was replaced by the relatively little-known Frances Saville as Zer- lina.* Sembrich was also included in the season’s extra-price attrac- tion, a version of Les Huguenots in which she sang Marguerite on February 20, with Nordica, 1 Mantelli (Urbain), the De Reszkes, Plancon, and Maurel. On January 18 the cast included Lehmann as Valentine and Adams as Marguerite, and on Febru- ary 7, when Jean de Reszke was not available, Saleza was a more than able replacement. Lucia, Harriet* in Martha, and Gilda were other roles sung by Sembrich during these weeks. A kind word might be entered here about Albert Saleza, a tenor whose career was spent first in the shadow of De Reszke, then in that of Caruso. “He has a pure, mellow tenor voice of admirable quality,” wrote Henderson of his debut as Romeo on December 2, and there was praise also for his “elegant diction,” the “finish of the Gallic school” in his phrasing. His Don Jose* on December 21 was rated “very fine” by the same writer. A rather short man, with a plain face, Saleza came to high esteem among devotees of fine singing, if not with the general public. 1 In the week thus begun, Nordica sang the same role the next night in Philadelphia, an emergency Donna Anna in place of Lehmann on Wednesday, and her scheduled Isolde on Saturday afternoon. The Times observed that the exertion left no effect on her tones, though it “appar- ently cost a little more effort than usual to produce some of them.” 152 The Metropolitan Opera Eighteen worlcs were given in the seventeen-week period, with fewer of the “off nights” previously scorned. Manon gave much pleasure when it was sung on January 14 with Saville (Manon* ), Van Dyck (Des Grieux*), Albers (Lescaut*), and Plangon, and if the De Reszkes plus Nordica and Plangon were not enough reason for going to L’Africaine on February 27, Grau provided a fillip by offering Maurel as Nelusko.* “He is thoroughly ac- quainted with the traditions of 'L’Africaine,’ ” said the Times, “being something of a tradition himself.” Along with a heavy burden of conducting, Luigi Mancinelli prepared his own Ero e Leandro for a premiere on March 10, thus becoming the first composer to direct his own opera in a Metropolitan season. Much attention was directed to Arrigo Boito’s libretto, which was generally judged the worthiest part of the venture. Krehbiel found the score “eclectic,” with some moments of “passionate intensity.” Even with Mantelli singing the prologue when Schumann-Heink was indisposed, the cast was hardly improvable— Eames (Hero), Saleza, and Plangon (Ario- farno). The public was not impressed, though Grau tried two further performances in 1902. The passage of eighteen months or more since Nordica and Eames had been heard in a full season’s repertory (the first, of course, had been part of the Damrosch-Ellis company) had added stature to both. Constant references in the press reflected the increasing freedom and ease of Nordica in her greatest roles —the Briinnhildes, Isolde, even Donna Anna— and the confi- dence that she would fill the place of the departing Lehmann. Nevertheless, when Bauermeister fell ill on March 4 (a new twist to an old story), Nordica did not hesitate to add the music of the off-stage Priestess to her on-stage chore of Aida. Nobody ever heard that music better sung. As for Eames— once described by Shaw as “intelligent, lady- like and somewhat cold” — her Sieglinde* on December 14 was valued by the Times as “womanly and tender,” acted with “un- expected wealth of beautiful detail.” When she sang “With ver- dure clad” (from Haydn’s Creation) at a Sunday-night concert, the mating of voice and material seemed impossible of improve- ment. Her coming of age, artistically, was given official status by the presentation of Faust with Eames and the De Reszkes on Operas and Artists , 1899-1900 153 March 1 3— ten years, exactly, since her Paris Opera debut with the same stalwart support. For Lehmann there was a round of farewells as the season ended and her decision to forgo opera in America became general knowledge. She was lustily applauded and presented with a dia- mond pendant at a song recital in Carnegie Hall on April 10, and sang her last at the Metropolitan in a post-season gala on April 21, choosing the last half of the first act of Die Walkiire with Dippel. On the following afternoon she honored a protdgd of the late Seidl, Franz Kaltenbom, by singing “Abscheulicher” from Fidelio and the “ Liebestod ” in a concert he conducted in Car- negie Hall. Lehmann came to America for a concert tour the next winter, and then decided that eighteen crossings of the Atlantic had sufficed. When she was prominently mentioned in the press again, it was as the moving spirit in the organization of the Salzburg Festival, and then as mentor for Geraldine Farrar. 1899-1900 Taking all things together, the season of 1898-9 probably marked the high point in Grau’s career as an impresario. For one thing, it had been two years in the making, and virtually every contin- gency was anticipated to make the chosen repertory work. For the season that followed it, two mighty personalities had to be replaced: Lehmann, whose absence had been anticipated, and Jean de Reszke, whose return had been expected despite some hints that he, too, was looking forward to retirement. In the end he decided that Paris and London were closer to his country home in Poland than New York was, and Grau had to manage as best he could for this winter without him. One consequence was a project to outdo anything he had pre- viously undertaken in all-star casts. This was a production of Die Zauberflote — not previously heard in the theater— of which the Times anticipated no great public interest in the music, but thought “large audiences can be attracted by putting as many of the principal members of the company as possible into the cast.” As a production, too, it promised more than Grau’s aver- age, for the designs of a greatly successful revival in Munich the summer before were utilized. When it finally came to the stage on March 30, it did not im- 154 The Metropolitan Opera mediately compete with Munich, for at least the reason of text— the Metropolitan knew it first as II Flauto magico. If it did not have quite the ten stars of both sexes rumored to be in store, there were more than enough for all ordinary purposes. Sem- brich (Queen of the Night*), Earn es (Pamina*), Plangon (Sara- stro*), De Lussan (Papagena*), Campanari (Papageno*), and Dippel (Tamino*) were a fair enough start. To them were added Milka Ternina, Mantelli, and Carrie Bridewell (Three Ladies) , and Suzanne Adams, Eleanor Broadfoot (later known as Eleanora de Cisneros), and Rosa Olitzka as the Three Boys. Mancinelli conducted. Whatever the reason, the audience went “well-nigh wild” (the Times) when the principals lined up for a call after the first act, and there was commendation for the production, of which “the lions alone were worth the price of admission.” The vocalization of Eames and her lovely appearance were the artistic summits of this occasion, for Sembrich was not in her best vocal condition. Plancon, however, was an impressive Sarastro, and Mancinelli’s conducting satisfied. The house was full for the repetition on April 4, and there were three more performances in the closing days of the season. The casts remained largely the same, but Clementine de Vere replaced Eames on April 7, and Edouard de Reszke was Sarastro* on April 9. The criticism applied to the look of Grau’s stage resulted in a new production of Romeo when the Gounod score opened the season on December 18. Albert Alvarez, from Paris, made his debut as Romeo,* and was greeted as a man of “splendid pres- ence, an actor of unsurpassed grace . . . [with] a very fine voice.” Eames, Plangon and Edouard de Reszke were in this cast. Alvarez sustained a high standard as Jose* in Carmen on De- cember 20, in which Calve returned in splendid style, with Plan- gon a much admired Escamillo;* as Faust* on December 23; and as Rhadames* on January 3, when Eames added one of her best- remembered roles to a lengthening list. The celebrated photograph of Eames’s Aida* (see pictures) had its verbal parallel in the description of the Times: “an en- chantment to the eye . a ravishingly beautiful spectacle.” Costumes designed by her painter husband, Julian Story, were no small part of the total effect. Moreover, she sang the music Operas and Artists, 1899— 1900 155 “fluently and with an opulent loveliness of tone” (the Times). The picturesque Amonasro* was Antonio Scotti, whose thirty- three-year career began on December 27 in Don Giovanni. The Tribune found him “an artist in the highest sense of the word”; the Times pronounced him “immediately successful.” Antonio Pini-Corsi, a well-liked buffo, was Masetto* (d), with Nordica, Sembrich (Zerlina), and Adams on one side of the drama, Ed- ouard de Reszke (Leporello) on the other. It was noted that real musicians took part in the ballroom scene on stage, not the usual supers. Scotti, among a series of roles which included Valentin* in Faust on December 29 ( Calve a much more expert Marguerite than before), Malatesta* in Don Pasquale on January 19, and Alfio* in Cavalleria on March 21, won the greatest admiration for his Tonio* in Pagliacci on January 19. The Times described it as “one of the most admirable impersonations ever seen on the Metropolitan stage.” By March 23, when he sang Escamillo,* Scotti was “the popular baritone.” The curtain was dropped mid- way in the third act of this performance when Calve fainted during the scuffle of Jose and Escamillo. She was revived, and continued. Milka Ternina and Johanna Gadski began their Metropolitan careers this season with successful debuts, the first as Elisa- beth* (d) in Tannhduser on January 27, the second as Senta* (d) in Der fliegende Hollander on January 6. Both were known from their appearances with the Damrosch touring troupe, and Ternina, in particular, was found “full of intelligence” (the Times), with a voice “round, sweet and sympathetic.” Gadski’s Senta was praised for sincerity and sound style, though she did not always sing on pitch. Her Eva* in Die Meistersinger on Feb- ruary 2 suffered by comparison with her predecessors this season, Eames and Sembrich. The latter sang this, the only Wagnerian part of her Metropolitan career, on March 19, with customary finesse; she knew Elsa, but did not sing it in New York. Theodore Bertram, a new baritone this season, was the able Sachs,* as Van Rooy had been before. Ternina grew steadily in esteem, from a rather small-scaled Isolde* (with Van Dyck, Van Rooy, Schumann-Heink, and Edouard de Reszke) on March 2, to a series of Briinnhildes— 156 The Metropolitan Opera March 20, March 22, and March 27— of which the climaxing Gotterdammerung earned the epithet “glorious” from the Times, with additional commendation for “an overwhelming plenitude of warm, mellow tone.” This year’s Wagner was directed by Emil Paur, who, in the manner of Seidl, was also conductor of the Philharmonic Society. He appealed to current taste more than Schalk had, winning praise at his debut on December 23 for a performance of Lohen- grin “intelligent, sympathetic, and enthusiastic,” and for orches- tral playing “vigorous, flexible and at times brilliant” (the Times ) . He led an uncut Ring cycle that began on February 21 with a R heingold in which Van Dyck’s Loge was valued by the Times as “a finer creation than Edwin Booth’s Iago,” Brema’s Fricka was admired, but the deficiencies of the staging were de- plored. Schumann-Heink sang both Erda and a Rhinemaiden. The later works presented Nordica unvaryingly as the Briinnhilde, with a surprising success for Ternina as Sieglinde* in Die Wal- kiire on February' 22. This was, in the view of the Times, no more nor less than “the most complete and convincing interpretation of the Volsung’s bride” New York had experienced. In the Gotterdammerung of March 1, Schumann-Heink exceeded all records for busy service by singing not only the Third Norn and Waltraute, but a Rhinemaiden as well. Paur was also offered an opportunity to show his hand in an- other kind of German repertory when Nicolai’s Die lustigen Weiber von Windsor was heard on March 9. Fritz Friedrichs was an undelightful Falstaff, while Bertram (Fluth), Pringle (Reich) and Dippel (Fenton) were not of usual Grau standard. Only Sembrich (Frau Fluth*) and Schumann-Heink (Frau Reich, or Mistress Page*) were. There was no repetition— the size of the house, the spoken dialogue in German, and the un- balanced cast were all liabilities. The favor to German was accidental, the available singers be- ing mostly of that background. In giving Die Zauberflote in Italian, convenience still prevailed, as it did in the instance of a German Fidelio on March 16, with the chorus singing in Italian, or a Carmen on February 14 with Olitzka using Italian because Calv6 and De Lussan were ailing. Temina’s Leonore* was far from Lehmann’s (last heard in 1892) in dramatic stature, but Operas and Artists, 1899-1900 157 she sang "with no little beauty of tone” and a "complete under- standing of [the role’s] significance” (the Times). The cast did not measure up to previous standards, and Paur’s rough handling of the score called for remonstrations. He prefaced the opera with the Fidelia Overture, playing the “Leonore” No. 3 before Act II. This was the first season to offer three works of Mozart, Don Giovanni and he Nozze di Figaro continuing in the repertory now graced by II Flauto magico. Scotti’s Don added considerably to the force of the first (page 155), but the Figaro cast was not always what it had been. Eames, Campanari (Figaro), and Edouard de Reszke (Almaviva) continued to be excellent, but when Sembrich could not sing on December 22, Clementine de Vere was a Susanna* "unusually deficient in sonority,” the Times reported. On occasions when Mancinelli conducted, there was more Mozart in the air than Bevignani provided. There was least of it on March 24, when Edouard de Reszke could not ap- pear as Almaviva, and Dufriche, the Antonio, took his place. Whether he actually sang both parts is questionable, though the Times reported: “M. Dufriche was permitted to exhibit his fa- mous feat of singing two roles at once.” It is a certainty that Eames became hoarse during the evening and “Dove sono” was omitted. So far as versatility is an index to the ability of a singer, Sem- brich and Nordica found common ground in Violetta, which the great Isolde and Briinnhilde sang on February 14, when her colleague was indisposed. Nordica, who had sung the Wal- kiire Briinnhilde a few' days before in Philadelphia, gave her listeners what the Times described as “a genuine treat. . It is because she began her career in the school which teaches the treatment of such parts that she is now able to sing the music of Wagner so notably. . . . She never sang ‘Ah fors e lui’ with such breadth . . . the facile ornamentation of her ‘Sempre li- bera’ had gained in subtle significance.” Sembrich made her con- tribution to good will among prime donne by singing an excellent Marguerite* on April 2 in place of Calve. Despite the favor Sembrich enjoyed with the press and some elements of the public, she did not provide the kind of "star” quality that some box-holders thought desirable. Thus, the com- ment in Henderson’s column of the Times on April 25: “It is 158 The Metropolitan Opera not generally known but it is a fact that Mr. Grau is at the beck and call of the Amusement Committee of the stockholders, and the most active member of this committee is, to put it as courte- ously as possible, not a judicious guide. 1 Certain changes which are to be made in next season's company are the result of this in- fluence. Mme. Melba, for example, is to come back and Mme. Sembrich is not.” After noting that the ticket demand, in a season without Melba and De Reszke was not what it had been, there came the invariable question of novelties: “Mr. Grau can- not compel his singers to study new roles and with the multitu- dinous activities of a season divided between New York and Philadelphia, he cannot find time for the rehearsal of new works.” Dates change, but not the immemorial problems and promises of managers! 1900-1901 Just as Philadelphia and the rehearsal problem are immutable factors of Metropolitan Opera, so is the “controversial” issue of opera in English. Would it interest a larger public— though its well-meaning advocates ignore the fact that the “popularity” of opera is no part of its recent problems— and thus help to make ends meet? It has apparently been forgotten that it was actually put to the test, at the Metropolitan itself, prior to the regular season of 1900. Henry Savage was the impresario. He was allowed to call his company the Metropolitan English Grand Opera Company, and the productions came out of Grau's warehouse. Of the singers, only Clarence Whitehill (a splendid Sachs, Wotan, and Am- fortas-to-be) obtained later celebrity, and only Zelie de Lussan was a current “name.” Emphasis was on repertory— a character- istic sequence of Romeo, Tannhauser, II Trovatore, Lohengrin , Carmen, and Mignon, with The Bohemian Girl and The Mikado to flavor the mixture— and a top price of one dollar and a half. The press was indulgent, but the severest critic of all— the au- ditorium-remained inflexible. The small voices and the limited experience of most of the singers proved no bargain, at whatever price. What could not be heard could not be enjoyed, whether 1 Inferentially, the reference is to the then president of the Opera and Real Estate Company, G. G. Haven. Operas and Artists, 1900-1901 159 in English or any other tongue. The lack of public response was interpreted to mean that operagoers preferred to save their money for one performance by the established favorites rather than at- tend two performances by others. The season struggled on to the end, when most of the performers returned to the Castle Square Opera Company, which toured during the winter and played in New York during the off season in such a theater as the Casino or the Broadway. In the framework of the time, the day that saw the actual turn of the century— December 31, 1900— had an almost unbearable importance. For months rumors had been circulated that Jean de Reszke would never sing again, or if he did, would sing with little of the quality of old. He had, in fact, sung little during the whole of 1900; but he assured Henderson in a private communi- cation that this was merely to conserve his strength against an- other New York winter, and he would show in good time just how well he could sing. Grau’s selection of the date was not without interest, for it had been set aside, many months before, for a Sembrich recital in Carnegie Hall, which would begin an extended tour for this artist. (She was not a member of the company this season.) Fear- ful that a lesser attraction might not draw, Grau put the issue beyond doubt by announcing it as the occasion for Jean de Reszke’s reappearance. In a Times report the Sembrich audience was described as “large and happy.” In another column of the same paper Henderson stated that De Reszke was greeted “by an immense audience . . . with every manifestation of . . . in- terest in his vocal welfare.” The performance was interrupted by cheers when De Reszke appeared in the Swan Boat, and when it was stilled, Henderson continued: “Though the famous singer was palpably suffering . . . from nervousness, he sang the fare- well with delicious beauty of tone and that consummate mastery of phrasing and declamation which make his every vocal utter- ance a delight.” The reception during Act I has long ranked as one of the most prolonged in Metropolitan history— half an hour, by some esti- mates. After Act II, Nordica (singing Elsa) slipped from sight to permit De Reszke to face “cheers and bravos” from his ad- mirers. He ended the evening with the same kind of performance 160 The Metropolitan Opera with which he began— but no longer nervous. Actually the con- temporary reports suggest that Edouard, singing King Henry, and Nordica were more overwrought than the tenor. The post- mortems declared that Jean realized that there would be an out- burst when he appeared, and if he allowed it to distract him from the trying task of singing “Nun sei gedankt, mein lieber Schwan,” the evening might be a fiasco. When he had sung it successfully and walked to salute the King, he found himself facing a mon- arch— his brother, after all— with tears in his eyes. As the act continued, Nordica— once more his friend after the Melba- Briinnhilde misunderstanding— encouraged him with whispers of “Bravo, Jeanl” For the first time in a De Reszke performance at the Metropolitan the conductor was Walter Damrosch. For this last season in America, De Reszke received $2,500 for each of thirty performances, and responded with a review of vir- tually every major role in his repertory, plus Walther von Stolzing in German. In sequence came Faust on January 4 (with Melba, Edouard as Mephistoph&es, and Scotti as Valentin*); Rha- dames in Aida on January 7; a revival of he Cid on January 14, in which Lucienne Breval made an equivocal impression in her debut as Chimene,* and Melba was the Infanta; with Da Gama, Tristan, Siegfried, and Walther later on. The Aida was notable not only for De Reszke’ s inclusion of “ Celeste Aida” (which he preferred to omit because he found it trying to sing so early in the performance), but also for a strong Aida* by Gadski, Louise Homer’s Amneris,* (d) and an Amo- nasro* by Scotti which was judged “the finest . . . since Panta- leoni.” Philippe Flon got more out of the orchestra than had been customary with his predecessors, and the future of Aida be- gan to look brighter. Romdo, on January 30 (with Melba, Plangon, and brother Edouard) was, as a matter of course, a “unique interpretation” (the Times) for Jean, as was his Raoul in Les Huguenots on March 11. Some concern was expressed when Jean contracted “la grippe” following a draughty exposure during the third act of Tristan on February 11 (the superstitious remembered that a similar happening had cost the life of Schnorr von Carolsfeld, the first Tristan), but he recovered after a three-week interruption of work. Operas and Artists, 1900-1901 161 The staggering season continued for Jean de Reszke with the young Siegfried on March 19. He had not sung the role since April 14, 1897, and the weight he had put on in five years was not easily disguised. But the singing art was in splendid order (he had bothered to go to a Philadelphia performance with Dippel ■ as Siegfried a few weeks earlier to refresh his ear for the score) , and the Times marveled at his “freedom of movement, grace : and youthfulness of bearing.” This time, however, the young * Siegfried had a mustache. Walther von Stolzing, in German, was '■! finally accomplished on March 25, with Gadski, Schumann- j Heink, Edouard as Sachs, and Bispham. Two performances of j Gotterdammerung (one with Nordica, one with Ternina) were l followed on March 29 by a return to Lohengrin. Only his friends knew that he did not intend to sing another season in America, but the public could not have been more demonstrative at a formal farewell. He made his final appearance on the Metro- politan stage in a post-season gala on April 29, singing the second .j act of Tristan with Nordica, Schumann-Heink, and Edouard as ■ King Mark. 1 Thus the De Reszke era, as it applied to the brothers at the | Metropolitan. Edouard returned for another season, but Jean j sang sparingly thereafter, not, as some intimated, because of | trouble with his vocal organs, but simply because he found it in- '• creasingly difficult to control his weight and resultant shortness i of breath. He gave up all public performances in 1903, and made j his home in Nice, where he taught as much as suited his fancy j and received old friends from all over the world till his death in 1925. He had but one unfulfilled ambition: to sing Parsifal. He J might have gone to Bayreuth to do so, but one of his dearest ) friends was the Princess of Wales, who could not imagine why he should give pleasure to the Kaiser, whom she described as a “horrible old man.” Rather than do so, De Reszke did not sing 1 Parsifal. That, I suppose is the meaning of being an artist and a gentleman. % There is a legend— spread only after both men were dead— « that De Reszke heard Caruso at Covent Garden in 1902 and said: “That is the boy who will take my place,” but it can be \ scarcely believed that he thought the Italian, no matter how great a vocalist, the type to shoulder his encompassing repertory. I 162 The Metropolitan Opera As De Reszke was departing the scene in Wagner, however, the Metropolitan was welcoming the works of Puccini, in which Caruso was to have some of his most splendid successes. Mimi* entered with Melba on December 26, 1900, in a performance of La Boheme that tempted Krehbiel to describe it as “foul in sub- ject . . . futile in its music.” Henderson judged the work as “episodic,” while admiring the “fine duet” of Act III. He could not see “permanent success for an opera constructed as this one is.” But if Melba lacked acting skill as Mimi, he thought her “cold, silvery voice suited the music perfectly.” Saleza, as Ro- dolfo* “frequently evoked something like a frenzy of enthu- siasm” (Krehbiel). Charles Gilibert (Schaunard*), Campanari (Marcello*), and Marcel Joumet (Colline*) were others in the cast, but Fritzi Scheff was unable to appear as Musetta, causing Grau to engage a Signora Occhiolini from a touring Italian com- pany. She sang in a thin, tremulous voice, much inferior to the “pert and vivacious” Scheff admired by the Times as Musetta* on January 11. Henderson began to hear more in the score with its repetitions, remarking the “beauties of the orchestration” and finding even the xylophone used “with ingenuity and appro- priateness.” Boheme was not given in 1901-2, but it returned in 1903 and has not missed a season since. Perhaps this increasing familiarity with Puccini’s methods fa- vored the greater respect with which To sea 1 was received at its introduction on February 4. “Repulsive” was the Times’s word for the subject, “hideous” the Tribune’s. Henderson, however, found “R econdita armonia” a “really seductive piece of canti- lena,” the orchestration throughout “solid, picturesque, ingen- ious.” Temina as Tosca* was “almost great” as an actress, “highly expressive” as a vocalist. For the moment nothing could be said of Scotti’s Scarpia* save that it was admirable, but in a week-end article Henderson called it a “brilliantly vigorous and aggressive impersonation . . . with a full appreciation of the brutality of the character.” Nothing then being known as “Vissi d’arte,” the writer directed attention to “the one cantabile of the second act,” in which Ternina “makes a fascinating point.” It 1 The incorrect billing La Tosca is still too often repeated. It is correct for Sardou’s play, but the librettists deleted it from the opera, which is inscribed simply Tosca. Operas and. Artists, igoo—igoi 163 would have been repeated for the “unreasonable Italian contin- gent” had Ternina not been “a true artist.” 1 Cremonini was but fair as Cavaradossi.* Scotti sang every performance of Scarpia in Tosca until 1910, when Amato had a chance, and most of those till his retirement in 1932. The season’s other novelty was Reyer’s Salammbd on March 20, not denied by Grau to be the most expensive produc- tion he ever offered, as copied by Homer Evans from the Parisian original. The stimulus for it was the promotion of Lucienne Brdval (born Berthe Schilling, of Swiss parents, in Berlin), who had not won much favor in Le Cid (see page 160), Les Hugue- nots, or VAfricaine despite an appearance “ideal” for Selika* (Henderson). As Salammbb,* a role she created in Paris, Breval “wore gorgeous gowns and ran the gamut of her semaphoric poses,” but her singing “was again not a source of pleasure” (the Times). Saleza made something of the “crepitant” music with his Mathos,* and Scotti (Hamilcar*) and Journet (Narr-Havas*) performed in customary fashion. A repetition ended the career of a production “seldom equaled” in an American theater (Hen- derson). Breval had a long career to come in Paris, but it was the judgment of the Times that she sang “rudely and without finish.” Boi'to’s Mefistofele had a brief return in this season on behalf of Marguerite Macintyre, an English favorite who made her debut as Margarita* (d) on January 14, with Cremonini (Faust*) and Plangon as Mefistofele,* one of his great parts. Macintyre, however, had only a worn voice to withstand comparison with Calve’s, and little of the latter’s dramatic art. Among the artists, besides Scotti, launched on long careers dur- ing this transitional season were Louise Homer, Marcel Joumet, Fritzi Scheff, and Charles Gilibert. Homer was the least skilled of them when she was first heard as Amneris* in Aida on Decem- ber 22, being described as having “a rather hard voice of plenti- ful volume,” but not “gifted with much temperament” (the Times). She made a place for herself, however, as one of the 1 This same column of February 10, 1901 contains the first mention I have found in the Times of the name Toscanini. Just so, neither Arturo nor Signor. It relates Siegfried Wagner’s pleasure with a production of Tristan at La Scala, especially with the details of lighting supervised by Toscanini. 164 The Metropolitan Opera better American artists of this era. Journet, the King* of this same Aida, was heartily endorsed for his “smooth, sonorous, ex- tensive, and well-placed” voice. It endured long enough for him to sing M 6 phistoph 61 £s in the first complete recording of Faust thirty years later. This year he went on to the big bass roles in Romeo, 11 Trovatore, Les Huguenots (Marcel) and even Das Rheingold (Fafner), always with creditable artistry. SchefFs debut should have been as Musetta (see page 162), but she was vocally unfit, and appeared first, instead, as Marcel- lina* (d) in Fidelio on December 28. She brought a “whiff of the Viennese style” to the evening, according to the Times, and also pleased as Zerlina* in Don Giovanni (the only Mozart of the year, on January 23, with Nordica, Gadski, Scotti, Salignac, and Edouard de Reszke), the Forest Bird* in Siegfried, Nedda* in Pagliacci, and a Walkiire— Helmwige— in the gala on April 29. Gilibert, best remembered for his Father in Louise with the Ham- merstein company, made his debut as the Duke of Verona* (d) in the Romeo that opened the season on December 18. This was an uncommonly splendid first night, and the description of Mme Bauermeister earning off the bouquets tossed to Melba after her waltz usurped the space that might have been given to the new baritone. He wore well, however, until his sudden death in. 1910. Verdi’s death, on January 27, 1901, was mourned in a full two columns of obituary in the Times, and the following night’s con- cert at the opera paid him tribute. How much it might have pleased him is questionable, for Walter Damrosch honored his memory with the Funeral March from Gotterdammerung. Some- thing more appropriate was organized for February 17, when Mancinelli conducted the first performance in the Metropolitan, of the “Manzoni” Requiem, with Nordica, Schumann-Heink, Salignac, and Plan$on. The custom of an uncut Ring cycle was abandoned this season, not to return until Bodanzky undertook the task in 1929-30. The four works were given in sequence, however, beginning on February 25, with casts much the same as the year before. With- out Eames, Calvd, Sembrich, or Lehmann, among recent favor- ites, Grau had problems in organizing all-star casts of former quality. Instead, he tempted the cautious opera-lover with coup- Operas and Artists, 1901-1902 165 lings of Melba in Bohkme followed by Melba in the “mad scene” from Lucia on March 18, and still did not fill the house. (The Times reported that the cast supporting Melba was not com- posed of singers “who excite public curiosity.” They were Cre- monini, Scheff, Campanari, and Joumet.) He did better on March 22, when he coupled Melba in Rigoletto, with Gadski, Scotti, and Dippel in Cavalleria. Grau’s company toiled extensively for him this season, begin- ning on November 9 in Los Angeles, with six Western cities visited before the New York opening in December, and four Eastern ones in the spring. Philadelphia saw the group twenty times this winter. The final impression was that after meeting expenses for the new productions of Salammbo, Tosca , and Bo- heme he had come out about even. 1901-1902 As was inevitable with a singer of Jean de Reszke’s celebrity, rumors were frequent during the next half-dozen years that he had changed his mind about retirement and would sing again in New York. He was considered a possibility as general director when Grau had to retire because of ill health in 1902; and the shrewd Oscar Hammerstein did not omit his name from the list of artists with whom he was “negotiating” when the opening of the Manhattan Opera House approached. Had Grau held on until 1903, when his contract with Caruso became operative, he might well have entered another era of all- star casts. But the distinction between “all-star” and “ideal casts” is at once apparent. Lacking a tenor of Jean de Reszke’s special distinctions— which is to say lacking Jean de Reszke— the “ideal” cast became a figure of speech, implying a wish rather than a prospect, a memory rather than a promise. In the pattern of the previous season, this one opened late— indeed, as late as December 23. Sixty-four performances were compressed into a ten-weeks playing schedule, which meant, with Tuesdays and Thursdays not in the subscription cycle, that two performances on some days were more frequent than usual. Grau’s choice of Tristan und Isolde for the first night might look at this distance to have some aesthetic significance, but the rea- sons were wholly practical. Van Dyck was now the first tenor, i66 The Metropolitan Opera and the honor of opening the season might enhance his prestige. By saving Rom 6 o, with Eames as Juliette, for the second play- ing night— Christmas— Grau would, in effect, have two premieres. All this careful planning misfired badly when the W. K. Van- derbilts decided to spend the holiday week-end in the country, and the people subordinate to him, according to the Times , “de- cided it would never do for them to be seen at the opera on ei- ther the opening night or Christmas evening.” Those of the society stratum who did come to Tristan — with Ternina, Ed- ouard de Reszke, and Schumann-Heink— arrived late, and left after Act II. So dark an opera for so bright an occasion was gen- erally deplored, though a fresh setting for Act I was approved. On Christmas evening half a dozen boxes were not used at all, and others were filled by what was described as the “below stairs” aristocracy. Attendance elsewhere in the house was below par, a condition attributed by the Times to the “Enormous extrava- gance which marks the holiday season . . . these days [and] leaves people with little money to spend on . . . musical per- formances.” Evaluation of the works in which Jean de Reszke had usually appeared vacillated between two tendencies: to accept without comparison what was offered in the general spirit that opera did not end with De Reszke; to mourn, after all, that things were not what they had been. Romeo, with Alvarez on December 25, and Faust, with Dippel* on December 28 (Eames was the soprano on each occasion) were in the former category; Les Huguenots on January 29 definitely in the latter. Joumet's fine Mephistoph- el£s* (“Sonorous voice and excellent style”), Scotti’s Valentin- even minus what was still called “Dio possente”— helped Gou- nod; but of Les Huguenots the Times commented: “Of the cele- brated cast of which Jean de Reszke was a member, only Ed- ouard de Reszke remains . . . [his] was really the most enjoy- able performance of the entire cast.” Those encompassed in secondary status were Gadski (Valentine*), Emilio de Marchi (Raoul*), Suzanne Adams (Marguerite*), Scotti (De Nevers), and Journet (Saint-Bris), with Flon conducting. The division of Jean de Reszke’s duties among Dippel, Alva- rez, Van Dyck, and De Marchi left varying complaints against all. The last named was of interest because he had been the first Operas and Artists , 1901-1902 167 Cavaradossi* in Rome two years before. His Metropolitan debut (he had sung briefly at the Academy of Music half a dozen years before) in a Tosca of January 3, 1902, with Ternina and Scotti, earned praise for the size and freshness of his voice and his manly bearing. Likewise praised was his Rhadames* on January 17, in which attention was directed to his “Celeste Aida," for he sang it in the original key. He appeared in Grau’s last company, but did not return after Caruso’s debut. Sembrich was in this season, and Melba out, with several in- fluences on the repertory, especially the presentation of Le Nozze di Figaro and II Flauto Magico and the first hearing of Doni- zetti’s La Fille du regiment. Sembrich reappeared in Don Pas- quale on December 27 (II Barbiere had been scheduled, but Campanari was out of voice and "the company does not contain another Figaro,” the Times reported), with Scotti as Malatesta and Salignac as Ernesto. Sembrich was still mourning the death of her young son, but she gave great pleasure with her singing. She also sang in Nozze di Figaro on January 1, with Eames a "picture of inspiring beauty” and Scheff a good-looking Cheru- bino of "reedy tones,” and in The Magic Flute on January 27. She was warmly applauded for her “Gli angui d’ inferno," and repeated it. Although Ternina was a much more prominent artist than in 1900, she again sang the Third Lady, with Homer and Bridewell as the other Ladies. Scheff was a lively Papagena, Eames a charming Pamina. Dippel as Tamino and Edouard de Reszke as Sarastro were not so well suited to their roles. Man- cinelli being busy this year composing another opera ( Francesca da Rimini ), Armando Seppilli conducted the Figaro, Damrosch the Flute, neither with distinction. Sembrich had “one of the prettiest triumphs of her American career” (Krehbiel) on January 6 when La Fille du regiment had its first French performance in the memory of those who had not been alive when a troupe from New Orleans gave it in 1843. All others — Lind, Patti, Sonntag— had sung in Italian. Henderson de- clared: "Only those who saw Patti at her best ever enjoyed such an exhibition of buoyant, bubbling comedy, such a display of gorgeous singing.” Save for Salignac (" a ligneous and untuneful Tony,” said the Times), the cast of Gilibert (Sulpice*), Van Cauteran (the Marquise*), and Dufriche (Hortensius*) was fair i68 The Metropolitan Opera enough. Flon’s conducting was deemed “not capable” by the Times. To “fill out the evening/’ Grau offered Cavalleria with Calvd. As well as providing Sembrich with a beloved role, this Fille du rdgiment stimulated a critical sentiment that led to the even- tual construction of the New Theater. In the Tribune of Janu- ary 6 , Krehbiel declared: “The city needs an Opera Comique as a companion to its grand opera,” an opinion endorsed by Hen- derson a week later. It came within a decade— not at all a bad time lag for acceptance of a critical suggestion— but at the worst possible juncture, when the public was being tempted by both the Metropolitan and the Manhattan opera companies, and rarely found its way to Columbus Circle in satisfying numbers. Also part of a continuing pattern was the reaction to Isidore de Lara’s Messaline, when Calvd appeared on January 22 for the first time in a work that had considerable success abroad. Pre- vious complaints against “foul Mimi” and “repulsive” Scarpia became more strident as Henderson denounced this new “brazen display of impure passion,” and Krehbiel sought for words to convey his displeasure with this “new low in harlotry.” It was not long before Salome and Elektra, Sapho, even Der Rosenkavalier, were to ran a gantlet of critical objection based on morality. One may judge from the survival of the Strauss works whether the unconventional stories utterly damned the operas deemed musically weak as well. For the press, De Lara’s music lacked pith, pungency, or pic- turesqueness, but Calvd’s performance wrung praise from the most reluctant. She “acted and sang the role with consummate dramatic art,” wrote Henderson. “The more’s the pity.” Her use of vocal coloration he compared to Bernhardt’s, but the total effect was “deplorable.” Alvarez was praised, or condemned, for a Helion* full of “unbridled passion”; Scotti and Gilibert were deemed good in what was asked of them. Flon conducted. Mes- saline had two repetitions this season, and has had no revival since. Liabilities of another sort made the other novelty of this sea- son, Paderewski’s Manru, equally short-lived. The general esteem in which the pianist-composer was held as man and artist made the task of the reviewers an uncomfortable one after the premiere Operas and Artists, 1901— igo2 169 of February 14, and Henderson began the letting-down process by describing Alfred Nossig’s libretto as “unskillful in construc- tion and unpoetic in diction.” Thereafter came the unpleasant truth that the vocal utterance was “not direct,” that leitmotivs were used, but “not with real mastery,” and that heavy orchestral scoring in the Wagner manner obscured the voices. Paderewski was cordially urged to learn from these miscalculations and pro- ceed with operatic writing, but he never attempted another stage work. As Ulana,* Sembrich had an uncommon success in a dramatic role, and Alexander van Bandrowski, a tenor engaged for this task, made a “pleasing impression” as Manru* (d). Damrosch conducted. There were fifteen curtain calls for the composer after Act II, but there were no repetitions after the two of this season. Some talk appeared in the press of a Verdi cycle to honor the memory of the recently deceased master, but the only addition to the usual T raviata, Aida, and so on was a revival of Otello on January 31, with Eames and Scotti (Iago* ) . Our perceptions are blurred, but those nearer the events could see in this score the genesis of what is called the verismo school of Cavalleria, Pagli- acci, and Tosca. Eames’s Desdemona showed again the “perfect suitability” of her voice to the music; Alvarez survived compari- son with Tamagno to be termed a “splendid, virile figure, pas- sionate and affecting”; and Scotti’s Iago, if a little unsubtle, was “crafty, malignant, intense.” (All the comments are from the Times.) In this work, Seppilli’s conducting was apropos. For a novelty, there were no standees in the theater; a new fire regula- tion prohibited their presence. Because the opera could no more thrive without them than without the on-stage chorus, prudence soon gave way to necessity. The gala for Prince Henry of Prussia as a social event has been described elsewhere (page 74); in its musical dimensions, it was remarked particularly for the inconveniences it visited on the previous day’s perfonnances of Das Rheingold and Les Hugue- nots (February 24). The Wagner score had been insufficiently —if at all— rehearsed, and the Meyerbeer became a problem when Suzanne Adams reported ill. Sembrich knew her role (Mar- guerite), but begged off to save herself for the gala. Estelle Lieb- ling (identified as “the daughter of the accompanist Max Lieb- 170 The Metropolitan Opera ling”) was called upon, and obliged— in German. As is well known, the royal party came late and left early, with the re'sult that Sembrich decided not to sing after all. Of the Rheingold, the Times reported that “the orchestra wabbled through the score in uncertain fashion,” with Damrosch conducting. This being a year without Nordica, Ternina sang Sieglinde in Walkure, and Br6val— given a second chance— Briinnhilde.* Good appearance and excellent German enuncia- tion were her salient qualities. Temina sang the later Briinn- hildes in splendid style, but the performances were disrupted by a stubborn ailment that prevented Bispham from appearing as Alberich in either. As a result, Alberich’s scene was omitted from Gotterddmmerung. Moreover, Scheff was ill when time came for the Voice of the Forest Bird in Siegfried, and Grau called in Sophie Traubman, of German days, to help out. Dippel was a poor young Siegfried, Van Bandrowski scarcely better as the elder Siegfried. Amidst all this, Albert Reiss, who had made his debut as the Shepherd* (d) in the opening-night Tristan, sang “the best Mime we have yet had” (the Times ) . He remained a very able impersonator of such parts for two decades. Grau’s company continued to make money for him, but its members did not, other than as individuals, make friends for their artistry. The Flute production, for all its notable names, would have been improved had not some of the “names” re- fused to attend rehearsals. The orchestra (now often prefaced by the word “overworked” ) sometimes had to meet a schedule such as that of two January days that called for a Manru rehearsal at 11 a.m., a T annhduser rehearsal at 2 p.m., departure for a Phila- delphia performance at 4, return to New York at 4 a.m., and a M essaline rehearsal at 1 x . Apparently the efforts Grau had made to revise his productions in the two or three previous seasons had slackened. The description, in the Times of December 21, has a familiar ring (see page 137) : “bad scenery in most of the operas, a poor chorus, a wretched ballet, a mediocre orchestra, and gen- eral laxity and carelessness in all departments.” Nor did “a list of prominent singers such as can be found in no other opera house in the world save Covent Garden” seem as much compensation as theretofore. GERALDINE FARRAR’S debut as Juliette, November 26, icjo6 ON OPENING NIGHT November 11, 1946 THE METROPOLITAN OPERA HOUSE: Interior i : llSsti ERNESTINE SCHUMANN-HEINK as Waltraute MARGARETE MATZENAUER as Briinnhilde DER RING DES NIBELUNGEN— I left: MAX ALA 'ARY right: SET SVANIIOLM as Si, above: FRIKHRICII SCHORR as Wotan left: KRNST \'AN DYCK Siegmund right: ANTON VAN ROOY Wotan DER RING DES NIBKLUNOKN-.il left: 1 ,11, 1, IAN NORDIC, V as Isolde rinht: CLICK KRKMSTAD left: IIKI.KN TRAUBLI Isolde i it'll t: \LHKRT NILM \NN ,i lelt: J I list, in rit'./it KIRS I I N M.\OST\I> mid I, \UI<n /. MM. CHICK </. Isolde mid 1 list, III l'RISTAN UM) ISOI.DI ITALO CAMPANINI as Lohengrin LEO SLEZAK as W alther von Stoltzing in Die Meistersinger EMIL FISCHER as Hans Sachs in Die Meistersinger JOHANNA GADSKI ELISABETH RETHBERG KARIN BRANZELL as Elisabeth in Tannhauser as Elisabeth in Tannhduser as Brangdne in Tristan und Isolde left: CLARENCE WHITEHILL as Amfortas in Parsifal right: MARGARETE MATZE- NAUER as Kundry in Parsifal WAGNER left: FRIEDA HEMPEL as the Mars- challin right : FLORENCE EASTON as the Marschallin MARIA OLSZEWSKA as Octavian DER ROSENKAVALIER left: EMANUEL LIST as Baron Ochs right: RISE STEVENS as Octavian LOTTE LEHMANN as the Marschal- lin , taking a curtain call left: OLIVE FREMSTAD as Salome right: LJUBA WELITCH as Salome above: RENE MAISON as Herod left: ROSE PAULY as Elektra right: ASTRID VARNAY as Elektra SALOME AND ELEKTRA left: ANTONIO SCOTTI as Don Giovanni right: EZIO PINZA as Don Gio- vanni LILY PONS in II Barbiere di Siviglia GIUSEPPE DE LUCA as Figaro in II Barbiere di Siviglia )eT Freischiib SALVATORE BACCALONI Dulca ™ra in L’Elisir d’Amore CHARACTERIZATIONS kit I'AIMA !■' WIKS ,/v Ait hi rixjit: KMMV OKSTINN «jv Aui.i left: FRANCF.SC'.O TAM AC. as Otcllo right: GIOVANNI MAR I INI'- as Otcllo left: RAMON VINAY as Otello right: VICTOR MAUREL as Fal- staff left: I.AWRKNCK TIBBKIT « Ford right: ANCKI.O BA!) A ,f. I) Cuius OTELLO AND FALSTAFF hit vtisswimn tu i\( i ,i (lit' I hikf at lit t? n Ill p||i GERALDINE FARRAR as Florid Tosca MARIA JERITZA as Floria Tosca MILKA TERNINA as Floria Tosca left: ENRICO CARUSO as Caxa radossi ANTONIO SCOTTI ai left: GERALDINE FARRAR as Cio-Cio-San right: LICIA ALBANESE as Cio- Cio-San TOSCA AND MADAMA BUTTERFLY left : NELLIE MELBA as Marguerite GERALDINE FARRAR as Marguerite aboye: RICCARDO MARTIN as Faust left : EDOUARD DE RESZKE as Mephistopheles right : POL PLANCON as Mephi- ||| stopheles FAUST RRUNA CASTAGNA as Carmen aDove left: RENE MAISON as Don center: MARCEL JOURNET as Esca, right: GIUSEPPE CAMPANARI as j millo bottom: The Act II quintet: ALES 3DE PA °LIS, THELMA VOTIPKA t djanel, lucielle browni GEORGE CEHANOVSKY EMMA CALVE as Carmen MARIA GAY as Carmen CARMEN Operas and Artists, 1902-1903 171 1902-1903 The preceding comment points the way in which, without leav- ing his desk, Grau might have considerably bettered the kind of opera he was giving; but he had his own view of what the public cherished, and he acted accordingly. Indeed, by remaining at his desk and improving the general quality of opera rather than scouring the theaters of Europe for new talent to bolster the specific, Grau might have spared his health and averted the col- lapse that cost him control of the Metropolitan before this season was over. Henderson painted his searches vividly in the Sun 1 of Febru- ary 1, 1903, when the choice of a successor to Grau still hung in the balance: “Where are the new singers to be found? That is the almost insoluble problem which will confront any new im- presario. . It is the problem which has given Mr. Grau many a sleepless night and made his summer Vacations’ into a hideous nightmare. . . . Into a train and ride four or five hours to hear a tenor in Gath. No good! Into another train at midnight and ride all night to hear another tenor at Gilead! No good! First express out for Tyre to hear a dramatic soprano. . . . And so for- ward through the weary days and restless nights.” Yet it was not a prospect wholly adverse. Grau could look for- ward to Caruso, who had made a great success at the season in Covent Garden the preceding summer, for 1903; Olive Frem- stadt would soon be ready for America; and the Berlin successes of Geraldine Farrar must have made him smile, for she was in some respects a Grau protegee and could have been singing at the Metropolitan already had her advisers not decided that a period of European experience would be to her advantage. For this season Grau finally organized the Verdi tribute talked about the preceding season, but not accomplished. Otello was rer tained, and actually opened the season on November 24, with Eames, Scotti, and Alvarez, Mancinelli conducting. To the usual fare of Aida, Trovatore, Traviata, and Rigoletto, he added Ernani and Un Ballo in maschera. The opening night turnout was a very large one, and Henderson noted as its components: “High 1 The critic changed his affiliation from the Times on September 21, 1902. i"2 The Metropolitan Opera bred women . . . men who are called 'robber barons’ by those who hate them and 'railroad magnates’ by those who merely envy them: young bucks . . . half weaned boys . . . swell gam- blers and other ‘sporty men’ . . . half-crazed women reporters, terrified lest a Vanderbilt or Astor escape their count . all in that motley mob which constitutes the American equivalent of tout Paris.” When Ernani was given its first Metropolitan hearing on Janu- ary 28 (it had been dormant since an Academy season of 1882), Sembrich sang her first Elvira* anywhere, with delightful style; De Marchi was an earnest Ernani,* Scotti an explosive Don Carlos.* The undercurrent of dissatisfaction with the work of Edouard de Reszke during his last Metropolitan season drew the comment from Henderson that his “ ‘Infelice’ was extremely in- felicitous.” On the whole, the work seemed static, with the few airs, such as “Ernani involami,” insufficient to carry the eve-s ning. Richard Aldrich, new critic of the Times , doubted whether it was “all worth while.” Un Ballo was a somewhat fresher memory when it came along on February 23 (the German season of 1889-90 had included it), but Grau’s production provided novelty in the restoration of an Italian locale for the action (Naples) and, of course, the original language. The names in the cast— Gadski as Amelia,* Homer as Ulrica,* De Marchi, Campanari (Renato*), Edouard de Reszke (Sam*), and Joumet (Tom*)— were moderately promising, but few of them had sung the parts elsewhere, and the total was not impressive. By this time Grau had given over direction of the company to his associate Frederick Latham, who did not challenge the good-natured contempt of the press with a repetition. Falstaff had been planned for the Verdi sequence, but a mis- guided attempt by Eames to sing Tosca in December left her with a strained voice and deprived Falstaff of a necessary per- former. The other Verdi performances were not of notable qual- ity, though luster was added to Scotti’s repute with a fine Ger- mont* in T raviata on November 29, and a spirited Rigoletto* on December 6. Three names were associated with Amneris in the Aida of November 27: Homer, who was announced, but did not sing; Bridewell, who was appointed to replace her, but could not. Operas and Artists, 1902-1903 173 breaking down midway in Act II: and Eugenia Mantelli, singing this season in vaudeville, who was finally brought on to finish the tomb scene. The single performance of 11 Trovatore on March 1 1, with Nordica, Homer, De Marchi, Campanari, and Joumet did not receive much critical attention, for it shared the evening with Ethel Smyth’s Der Wald, Grau’s last novelty. Due attention was directed to the fact that no opera by a woman had previously been given at the Metropolitan, and the record remains unchanged after fifty years. Dame Ethel’s one- acter had an interesting intellectual structure, following the form of a French ouverture, with a slow section at the beginning and end, a fast one between. The "solemn dryness” of the writing, however, inclined the Sun to describe Der Wald as “an academic grove.” Questions were raised why the new work was not either Charpentier’s Louise or Puccini’s Manon Lescaut, with rather pointed implications that friends in high places had influenced the choice of this composer’s work rather than another's. It was given once again, with Gadski, Bispham, and George Anthes, this time on a bill with La Fille du regiment. Perhaps the most notable thing about Der Wald was the con- ductor, Alfred Hertz. After experiments with Schalk, Pauer, and Damrosch, Grau finally found, in Hertz, a musician who satis- fied the situation for a decade, until he left, with regrets, when the San Francisco Symphony beckoned in 1915. Parsifal, Salome, and Der Rosenkavalier were among the works New Yorkers heard first under the direction of Hertz. He made his debut with Lohengrin on November 28, “ridding the performance of much of its perfunctoriness,” said the Sun. George Anthes 1 made his debut as Lohengrin,* (d) singing well enough, but without the distinction to please a public still mindful of Jean de Reszke. Perfunctory Hertz never was, but there were often complaints that he loved Wagner’s sonorities too keenly for the best interests of the singers. The objections were heard after both Siegfried and Gdtterddmmerung of a Ring cycle that began on January 14. Nevertheless, the ebb and flow of the music were more strongly 1 For Anthes this single season in New York was memorable, if not pleasurable. He tipped over the Swan Boat in a Lohengrin of January 10, and in Siegfried on January 19 the anvil fell apart while his sword was still poised in air. ■y-j^ The Metropolitan Opera present than for some time. Anthes made something of a record by singing the leading tenor part throughout the Ring- Loge. Siegmund, and the two Siegfrieds. He was, needless to say, not equally suited to all, his young Siegfried in particular being de- ficient. Nordica sang the Briinnhildes in casts that deviated little from those of the several preceding seasons. Although Das Rhein- gold is hardly long enough to require cuts, Hertz risked critical displeasure by eliminating Alberich’s renunciation of love be- fore the rape of the gold. Omitting the Norris in C notterdarrs- merung was not disapproved. A new line of critical thinking about Wagner was disclosed this season when Alois Burgstallcr, with a Bayreuth background, came to sing Siegmund* in Die Walkiire on February 21. His background was not a virtue, for the local attitude was that the real Wagner tradition had been brought to New York by Scicll. that what was practiced at Bayreuth had been corrupted by the “Meister’s” wife, Cosima, and his son, Siegfried. Burgstallcr was admired for a fresh young voice and a good lithe figure, but, said the Sun, “he was as innocent of the art of tone production as a child.” He sang the two Siegfrieds on February 14 and 28, even tually winning more favor than either Anthes or Fanil Gerhiiuser, who was actively disliked at his debut as Tannhauser* (d) on December 1 and soon vanished. Burgstallcr sang the first Parsifal at the Metropolitan a year later, and flourished for several sea- sons thereafter. With neither Ternina nor Melba in the company, the public demand for Puccini resulted in the Tosca by Fames, and Scm- brich’s first Mimi. Neither came close to replacing the absent divas, though for quite different reasons. When Fames appeared in the new role on December 12, Henderson granted that it was better than anticipated, but added: “There is no blood in her performance. It was impeccable in design, icy in execution . . . lyric sweetness . . . perfect poise . . . the lovely but immobile face . . . were elements in a portrait of surpassing beautv but not of tortured womanhood.” She managed three further per- formances, but missed several other assignments between. Finally suffering from what one paper termed “Toscalitis,” she gave up singing for the season, and save for the post-season gala was ab- sent from the Metropolitan until 1904. Operas and Artists, 2902-1903 175 Sembrich managed the music of Mimi handily enough, but the judgment, on December 1 5, was that it was no role for her. Her conception, said the Sun, was “based on the assumption that the girl was modest, retiring and naturally refined” (a long step from “foul Mimi” ) . Archness or coquetry were not in her Mimi, nor the qualities that made Henderson term Scheff a Musetta “chic to her finger tips.” Grau’s gradual separation from active participation in the company, and the new duties assumed by Eames and Sembrich, left the company in short supply of what had formerly been its principal asset: brilliant singers of Marguerite and Juliette. Su- zanne Adams, Camille Seygard, even Fritzi Scheff had the chance to distinguish themselves as singers of Gounod, but did not. Adams was still a woman with an “exquisitely beautiful voice” (the Sun), but little gift for dramatic action. Finally, act- ing manager Latham called on Nordica to sing Marguerite on February 17, which she did with a dazzling display of “demi- voice and a cold tone” (in the first scene), “chest tones and a warm color” (in the love duet), then the “full power of her voice” (in the church scene). The witnessing words are Hen- derson’s. The week before she had sung Isolde and the Walkure and Siegfried Briinnhildes. A pseudo-stellar Le Prophete on December 10, with Alvarez, Journet, and Edouard de Reszke, left the memory of little that was notable save Schumann-Heink’s Fides.* Her singing of “Ah! mon fils” was ranked among the broadest, most noble feats of vocalization heard in the best of Metropolitan days. Also long remembered as a Metropolitan criterion was Scotti’s Almaviva,* when Figaro was first given on December 17. With Eames, Sem- brich, and Scheff as good as ever or better, Campanari a fine Figaro, and Gilibert (Bartolo) and Reiss (Basilio*) superior to the customary singers of those parts, the performance was en- dorsed as close to the best Figaro heard in the house. It was not given even once again, however, for Eames became involved with Tosca and the company had no other qualified Countess.. The other Mozart of this season was not outstanding, though both II Flauto magico and Don Giovanni were performed. Gad- ski sang Pamina* “unsteadily” in the former on February 25, and Donna Elvira* without “the velvety smoothness necessary iy6 The Metropolitan Opera for . . . Mozart's music” on March 8, said the Sun. Critical compassion was exercised, because Gadski had helped to take up the Eames slack by singing, in this season, Ai'da, Pamina, Elvira, Roschen in Der Wald, Eva in Die Meistersinger, Elsa, Elisabeth, Valentine in Les Huguenots, Sieglinde, Amelia in Un Ballo, Ero in a brief restoration of Mancinelli’s Ero e Leandro, and even Santuzza. As a gesture to the departing Grau, Gadski sang a thirteenth role in a gala for him on April 27, appearing as Senta in the sec- ond act of Der fliegende Hollander. Sembrich sang the first act of Traviata, Eames came back for the last act of Faust with Al- varez and Edouard de Reszke— his farewell to the Metropolitan— and there were other excerpts from La Fille du rdgiment, Les Huguenots, and Lohengrin. Mrs. Giau accepted the tribute on behalf of her husband, who was inconspicuous if present (the reports do not agree) . The decision to accept the group headed by Conried as the new lessors of the theater was made on February 14 (see page 11). A strong faction for Walter Damrosch had powerful sup- port in the press, which contrasted his musical capabilities with the lack of any in Conried, and warned: “Whether Mr. Conried is acquainted with these matters remains to be seen. One thing may be prophesied with perfect assurance: if he is not, he is go- ing to get a whole lot of experience and some one is going to pay a whole lot of money for it” (editorial in the Sun of Febru- ary 1 5 ). As an influence in the decision that favored Conried by seven votes to six, one may cite a remark by G. G. Haven, presi- dent of the Opera and Real Estate Company, which appeared in an announcement of Conried’s victory: “The men who are back of him are men who it is very advantageous for us to interest in the enterprise.” The principal assurance offered by Conried to his landlords was that he “believed more in ensemble than in stars.” To assist his aim of improving the staging of Metropolitan opera, the ownership company proposed to rebuild the stage “to bring it up to the standards of the best Continental houses.” In the end, the emphasis of Conried was placed on new mechanical devices and old singers. Both Jean and Edouard de Reszke would sing again, also Eames, Sembrich, Schumann-Heink, Scotti, and Operas and Artists, 1902-1903 177 Journet. The productions would be handsomely staged, well lit, and, above all, rehearsed. In a comment not without interest fifty years later, the Sun remarked on March 22, 1903: “Mr. Con- ned has not explained yet how he is going to compel Mme. Sem- brich and M. de Reszke to go to rehearsals nor how he is going to make them obey his stage manager if they do go. Under the star system which he intends to retain, no one has any authority over the principals: they do as they please. . . . This state of affairs is an utter absurdity, of course; but there it is.” So far as the De Reszkes were concerned, the solution was a relatively simple one: they did not come either to rehearsals or to New York. An irony of all the brave talk about abolishing the star system is its timing. It was scarcely six months later when the most illustrious star of the whole long Metropolitan history (as a public favorite and a drawing power) came to New York. EPILOGUE The quality of opera presented at the Metropolitan during the period when Maurice Grau was in command (1891-1903) is self- evident from the list of names which decorated the roster from the opening Romdo to the closing Meister singer. In no other period have so many of the greatest singers of the day been sys- tematically presented to the New York public. The sole excep- tion of consequence was Mattia Battistini, whose aversion to ocean travel, after one trip to South America in young manhood, is well known. Nordica, Eames, Sembrich, the De Reszkes, Lassalle, Scotti— these are indeed the symbols of fine singing for any age. Yet in that listing we have not mentioned Calve, Melba, or Temina; Salignac, Sal£za, or Alvarez; Plangon, Joumet, or Tamagno. And there are as many more unnamed as named: Gadski, Brema, Schumann-Heink, Lilli Lehmann, Scalchi, Mantelli, and Ar- noldson among the women; Campanari, De Marchi, Maurel, Bispham, Van Rooy, Van Dyck, and Reiss among the men. The distinction of the era was thus not merely the quality of the singers, but the profusion of them. There have been, in every period of the Metropolitan, artists of fine voices, presence, and superior intelligence. At no other time were they so abundant or the sources of supply so productive of replacements in any given iy8 The Metropolitan Opera category. They were, essentially and predominantly, opera- sing- ers, who worked hard at their trade and knew it well. Twenty or thirty appearances were by no means unusual for a Melba or a Plangon; there have been recent years when Lily Pons made two, Lauritz Melchior four. It follows, also, that such secondary sing- ers as Suzanne Adams, Camille Seygard, Fritzi Scheff, Zelie de Lussan, and Mathilde Bauermeister were as much superior to their present-day counterparts as the principals were to theirs. Given this historical group of singers, Grau nevertheless fol- lowed the unvarying course of every director with a public to please: expediency. Novelties appeared as they suited the con- venience of his stars, and were as quickly abandoned when the public failed to respond. Traditional methods prevailed without scrutiny or change. Vocal excellence there was, and it was worth paying to hear. As for conductors, it was Grau’s convinced opin- ion that “No one ever paid a nickel to see a man’s back.” About the only manifestation to indicate that there was an aesthetic somehow, somewhere latent in opera was the urge, ex- pressed through the De Reszkes, to sing the Wagner literature in German. With it came a preference for French works in French, largely because the salable exponents of the roles— Eames, Calve, Melba, Nordica, Sembrich— had such background to call upon. Deviations from both patterns were by no means unusual, but they at least established basic habits of thought from which emerged the Metropolitan’s signal distinction for half a century— the presentation of its major repertory in the language set by the composer. The Ring was given uncut for a while. La Boheme and Tosca were successfully launched. Otello and Falstaff were introduced, but the continuous effort for both was slight. To a second-hand opinion of what was well done in this period and why, what was shabby and how, the words of one who lived through it are much more pertinent. Writing in the Times of December 22, 1901, as the Grau impulse was running downhill, W. J. Henderson said: “ When an opera is performed in which there is no chorus and no ballet, in which the scenic attire is not vital to the general effect, in which stage management is powerless to work destructive evil, and Operas and Artists, 1902-1903 179 in which the devotion and personal ambition of several great artists work together for good, we sometimes get admirable results, as we have in .. . ‘Tristan and Isolde.’ Probably nowhere in the world have more impressive performances been given than those in which Mmes. Lehmann, Ternina, Nordica, Brema and Schumann-Heink were united with the de Reszke brothers and Mr. Bispham or Mr. Van Rooy. “Similar results have been obtained in ‘Die Walkure’ and ‘Sieg- fried,’ though in the former they were always attained in spite of stupid and even ridiculous stage effects. But . . . ‘Romeo et Juliette,’ for instance, is never adequately done at the Metropolitan, and as for ‘Les Huguenots’ what is there in our performances but the imposing line-up of celebrities before the curtain at the end of the garden scene?” If Grau read these words, as he doubtless did, he would prob- ably have repeated that he was “not in business for his health”— which became bad while business remained good— and pointed to the record of receipts as indicative of what the public wanted. Reserved, even-tempered, capable on many occasions of what would seem an extravagance today (such as paying Eames $800 to sing Micaela), Grau nevertheless had an unfailing instinct about where a line should be drawn. He paid Jean de Reszke $2,500 a performance in his final season because the box office would justify the extravagance, but he would not spend an extra dollar for a first-rate conductor. When he made a mistake, he took the blame squarely, as on the occasion when a disastrous tour westward ended with the company rolling homeward through the picturesque hills of New York State. “Look well, my children,” he said. “You will not see this view again at my expense.” When he died in Paris in 1907, still short of sixty, Nordica grievingly said: “He was so good and kind. I sang with him for years and we never had a written contract.” In a summation of his curious blend of gen- erosity and prudence, Jean de Reszke said: “He will give you a cigar, but he won’t give you a match.” In a time when choristers worked for fifteen dollars a week and orchestral players for less than fifty, when four conductors drew a total sum of $20,000 for a season’s work, and a whole ballet half as much, the kind of relations Grau enjoyed with 180 The Metropolitan Opera his stars was a key to successful operations. According to one partner, Henry B. Dazian of the costuming firm, Grau left over $600,000, virtually all of it acquired— after earlier bankruptcy— from his last years at the Metropolitan. Some of it came from well-advised investments, but most of it from the following earnings: Year Earnings Comment 1898-9 $137,766 (The average cost of raising the 1899- 1900 1900- 1 111,834 15,290 curtain was then $5,984. In the 1940’s it stood at $13,000, and has gone up since. ) The year of Jean de Reszke’s 1901- 2 1902- 3 185,022 142,948 return, the expensive Salamm- bd production, and an unprof- itable tour. $592,860 Besides drawing a large share of these profits plus earnings from galas, Grau received an annual salary that went from $10,000 in 1898 and $12,000 in 1899 to $20,000 for his last sea- sons. The company also profited from the concert tours it booked for its prominent personnel. THE CONRIED METROPOLITAN OPERA COMPANY 1903-1908 The narrow margin by which Heinrich Conried and his asso- ciates became the successors of Maurice Grau in the production of opera at the Metropolitan foreshadowed the rather troubled time they had in the next five years. Much of the press felt that the choice was ill considered, and the relations between the di- rector and his critics were more subjective than they should have been (see page 186). A few words about Conried himself might help to clarify cer- tain subsequent happenings. His productions of Parsifal, Die Fledermaus, and Salome — defensible as they might have been as Operas and Artists, 1903-1904 181 theatrical ventures— were all shadowed by some lapse of judg- ment which afflicted the worth-while end with the curse of ques- tionable means. Not the least of these was the clause in his con- tract by which the artists signed contracts with him, not with the company, and were thus obligated for an annual “mana- ger’s benefit.” His abuse of this prerogative was one of his signal affronts to the position such an institution as the Metropolitan should occupy in public affairs. An actor by trade, Conried was Silesian-bom, Viennese- trained. In his twenties he turned to stage management and supervisory work in general, coming to America at twenty-three to help run one of several German-language theaters then flourishing in New York. Within a few years he had secured backing from some of its patrons to open a competitive theater. He exercised a considerable business acumen to secure Ameri- can rights for various popular works of Johann Strauss and Mill- ocker, which he produced with success and leased, on royalty, to others. He also earned a comfortable side-income by providing the Hamburg-American line with steamer chairs, which were rented to its passengers. Conried was best known in the 1890’s for his direction of the Irving Place Theater, where works of Sudermann, Fulda, and Hauptmann were given years before Broadway knew them. He built an imposing patronage from the German-speaking public, conceived a plan of subscription sales much like that which the Theater Guild utilized later, and founded an able, well-disci- plined stock company. From time to time prominent personali- ties of the German stage would be brought to star in a special production. Out of this background grew the movement for a national theater which produced the New Theater on Central Park West as a home for spoken drama and the opdra-comique repertory not suitable to the Metropolitan. An eminently self- made man, Conried was remembered by an associate of his younger days as “lacking in those small courtesies which people like” (Montrose J. Moses; Life of Heinrich Conried, page 37). As an opera impresario Conried was as ill equipped as he was well equipped to run a theater. He had scant technical knowledge of voices, little grasp of the problems of operating an interna- tional reportory, rather limited acquaintance with music itself. 182 The Metropolitan Opera To be sure, he saw clearly the theatrical shortcomings of Grau’s productions and could well see how they could be improved— by overhauling the chorus and orchestra, providing more re- hearsal time, and, as the immemorial saying goes, abolishing the star system. How well he succeeded, the detailed record will re- veal. Certainly his business sense did not fail him: he received a yearly salary of $20,000, and the income from his benefit almost doubled that sum. Nearly half the profits of $300,000 earned by the company in its first three years went to Conried. When he re- tired, his investment of $75,000 was bought out by W. K. Van- derbilt for $90,000. His total income for running the Metropoli- tan between 1903 and 1908 was close to $400,000. While talking about abolishing the star system, Conried ac- cepted the stockholders’ decree that two from a list of six speci- fied singers should appear in every performance, also agreeing that the number of performances of Wagner operas on Monday nights should be severely restricted. Moreover, he pledged that the total of Wagnerian performances should be no more than forty per cent of the season’s total. 1903-1904 Whether for reasons of business or art, Conried’s decision to produce Parsifal had far-reaching consequences. To flout Bay- reuth was by no means a new idea (see page 107), but those who had considered it previously, in New York or London, had come, finally, to the conclusion that Wagner had willed some sort of proprietary right to his family in restricting the work to Bayreuth. More than this was not granted: as Bernard Shaw had written as long before as March 25, 1891 (the World), when a Lon- doner thought Parsifal should be restricted to the “religious at- mosphere” of Bayreuth: “In front of the Bayreuth Theatre, then, on the right, is a restaurant. On the left there is a still larger restaurant. . . . The little promenade in front . is crowded with globe trotters . . . quite able to hold their own in point of vulgarity, frivolity, idle curiosity and other perfectly harmless characteristics, with the crowd in the foyer of Covent Garden or the Paris Opera.” For its part, the Wagner family made, without success, every possible effort to prohibit the planned performance. When an Operas and Artists, 1903-1904 183 informal appeal to the Kaiser yielded nothing worth while, a civil suit was instituted in the New York courts. No copyright agreements were in effect between Germany and the United States; hence none were being violated. Thus an appeal for an in- junction could not be acted upon favorably. For that matter, Conried offered to pay a performance fee, which was curtly re- jected by the Wagner heirs. In non-musical circles the desirability of Parsifal was hotly argued, with most heat by those most ignorant of its content. One Protestant worthy stated his objection, in the Sun of No- vember 15, to a work in which “not only is Christ’s person rep- resented, but the blood.” The music critic (Henderson) dem- onstrated clearly that no such action takes place in Parsifal, whereupon the attack veered to the whole idea of “profanation” of a sacred subject. The Catholic Church, much more reserved, though also misidentifying Parsifal with a “personation of Christ,” stated through a spokesman. Father Hughes: “We will not take our ideas of what is sacred and what is not from these Protestant clergymen” (the Sun, as above) . Meanwhile, plans went forward for a December premiere, with intensifying objections from the clergy and even a petition to Mayor Seth Low that he suspend the Metropolitan’s license. Some part of the objection was incurred by Conried because he had scheduled his first performance for Christmas Eve. He had, doubtless, no intention of further offending those who thought of Christmas as a religious ceremonial as well as a season of good cheer; he was merely looking for an attraction for the worst theatrical night of the season. In terms of what would now be called “public relations,” it was an inspired piece of bad judg- ment. For those who had paid up to ten dollars apiece for tickets, the problems were of another order. What was the appropriate dress for a performance beginning at five in the afternoon? It was fi- nally determined that evening dress had been elected in London the previous summer by King Edward and Queen Alexandra for an afternoon-evening Ring cycle at Covent Garden. The prece- dent sufficed for New York. In the aftermath of the great event the New York press was concerned primarily with the production. The score had been 184 The Metropolitan Opera heard in concert performances periodically since it was new, and excerpts were occasional occurrences on symphony-orchestra pro- grams. As a spectacle Parsifal was acclaimed an overwhelm- ing success. The new stage devices (mostly traps) installed un- der the supervision of Carl Lautenschlager of Munich were admired, as was the stage direction of his Bavarian associate, Anton Fuchs. Henderson thought the Metropolitan’s Parsifal “better than any production ever given in Bayreuth,” the scenery “beautiful, imposing, and illusive.” Even the moving “panorama” (the un- rolling back-piece rarely used these days to suggest change of lo- cation as Gurnemanz leads Parsifal to the Hall of the Knights in Act I) was handsomely painted and “moved properly.” In the opinion of Aldrich (the Times), it was “the most perfect pro- duction ever made on .the American stage.” Krehbiel was espe- cially impressed with the treatment of the Flower Maidens. Among the cast, Temina was outstanding as Kundry,* even if her voice showed the beginnings of the unhappy condition that would shortly cause her retirement. Burgstaller as Parsifal,* out- did any previous accomplishment, and Otto Goritz (Klingsor,* d) began a career terminated only by the curtailment of the German repertory when America entered World War I. Robert Blass, of American birth, was a poorish Gurnemanz,* meaning that the garrulous tended toward the tiresome. Van Rooy did nobly as the afflicted Amfortas.* Whatever the fine points of the performance— the conducting of Hertz did not please all tastes, some of his tempos, for an odd- ity, being considered overfast— the interest of thousands had been stimulated. Ten repetitions were completely sold out, for total receipts of $183,608. Allowing for production costs and the expenses of the cast, it was guessed that close to $100,000 could be reckoned as profit. Conried pocketed the takings from a full house on April 23 when he specified a performance of Parsifal as his “manager’s benefit.” There were few cast changes in the numerous Parsifals, the important ones being restricted to the appearance of Marion Weed as Kundry* on January 7 and 21 and February 4, and Dip- pel as Parsifal* on February 10. The stimulation of interest en- couraged Henry Savage to announce that he would send a touring Operas and Artists, 1903-1904 185 company of Parsifal (in English) across the country in the fall, and Walter Damrosch presented a series of excerpts, with Nor- dica as soloist, on March 12. David Mannes was also violin soloist in a transcription of the Good Friday Music which the Sun prop- erly rejected as “cheap claptrap.” Parsifal was the musical event of this season with the largest share of pre-performance interest, but the debut of Enrico Ca- ruso on November 23 set in motion a chain of events still mis- interpreted, embellished, and romanticized thirty years after his death. Rather than being “discovered” by Conried from a pho- nograph record, Caruso was committed as long as two years before to appearing in New York during the winter of 1903. Henry Dazian, of the Grau company’s board of directors, heard the tenor at Monte Carlo in 1901 and advised Grau to engage him at once. Although he was not available at all in 1902, Caruso was engaged to come in 1903 for forty performances at 5,000 francs each— $960 as the franc then was quoted. When Grau re- tired, the contract lapsed. It was Conried’s dilemma to make a choice between Caruso and the rising Alessandro Bonci. Fortu- nately for the Metropolitan, Conried made the commercially sound decision, for if Caruso rather than Bonci had been left for Oscar Hammerstein, the Manhattan Opera might have had a longer and more irritating history than it had. Conried did, fi- nally, hear a record of Caruso’s voice, but it was after a contract for twenty-five performances had been signed. He was impressed enough to cable Caruso, in Buenos Aires on May 12, 1903, ask- ing for restoration of the original forty performances of the Grau contract, but the tenor’s time was already committed. Caruso’s debut in Rigoletto with Sembrich and Scotti found the attention of the audience divided between the freshly deco- rated theater (see page 68), the new maestro from La Scala— Arturo Vigna— in the pit, and the happenings on the stage. It was possibly the least effective of Caruso’s six hundred and seven ap- pearances in the theater. “La donna e mobile,” was redemanded only once, “not . . . more times,” as Aldrich noted in the Times “than is usual from tenors of much smaller repute.” In a bold venture of opinion, he thought Caruso’s singing and acting “gave reason to believe in his value as an acquisition to the company.” The Tribune objected to his “tiresome Italian mannerisms,” but 1 86 The Metropolitan Opera commended him as “a manly singer, with a voice of fine quality.” For Henderson (the Sun), the voice was “pure . . . of fine qual- ity.” His “clear and pealing high tones set the bravos wild with delight, but connoisseurs . . . saw more promise in his mezza voce and his manliness.” Richard Genee Conried, son of Heinrich, has told me that Caruso felt that he had not done himself justice at his debut, and was let down at the evening’s end. To show his confidence in the tenor’s future, Heinrich Conried offered to sign a five-year con- tract controlling his services, world-wide, on a rising scale that would reach $2,000 a performance in the fifth year. Caruso, ap- parently, was not depressed enough to accept. The succeeding series of Caruso appearances were steadily more secure and relaxed: as Rhadames* for the first of sixty-four times in Aida on November 30, with Gadski, Scotti, Plangon, and Edyth Walker (Amneris,* d); as Cavaradossi* in Tosca on December 2, with Ternina and Scotti; and as Canio* in Pagliaeci on December 9. The startling freshness of his voice made him the best Cavaradossi yet heard in New York, even if his acting was “bourgeois” (the Times). Some of the press remembered this occasion for non-musical reasons. They were at work on re- views of the evening’s performance during the latter phases of the second act when Conried appeared in the press room (a space on the grand-tier floor now occupied by the Guild Room) and threatened them with banishment from the house if they did not listen to Caruso sing “E lucevan le stelle.” The incident was un- reported in the next day’s reviews, but in a week-end article Hen- derson commented (the Sun) : “Heinrich Conried has added to his other numerous duties that of supervisor of the press of New York. He walked into the press room . . . the other night and practically issued an order to the experienced critics of the morn- ing newspapers as to how they should listen to the performance.” This incident underlines the special situation that prevailed be- tween director and press. Damrosch, as director, would probably not have been so bold— or so tactless. Caruso continued to thrive, in any case, with a Canio (see above) that was “very beautifully sung” (the Sun), though he went through the act-ending agony of “Ridi, Pagliaeci,” a second time when the audience demanded a repetition. Sembrich was Operas and Artists, 1903-1904 187 the sweet-voiced Nedda.* At a repetition of Tosca on Decem- ber 11 Caruso took rank as “the best Italian tenor we have had here in years” (Henderson), and his Edgar do* in Lucia on Janu- ary 8 (with Sembrich) left a comparison with Campanini the only measurement for a performance that had “manliness, vigor, passion, and withal a beauty of tone and vocal style that left nothing to be desired.” Caruso showed one of his most prized, if then unsuspected talents when he clowned through the part of Nemorino* in L’Elisir d’Amore on January 23 with rich comic effect, and sang “Una furtiva lagrima.” so beautifully it had to be repeated. In this first hearing at the Metropolitan of Donizetti’s delightful score Sembrich was a charming Adina,* Scotti a hand- some Belcore,* and Rossi an amusing Dulcamara,* but the eve- ning was Caruso’s. His farewell for the season, in Lucia on Feb- ruary 10, attracted the largest audience of the year, except for Parsifal. Among the contracts acquired by Conried from Grau was one that named Felix Mottl, of Karlsruhe, the first Generalmusik- direktor in Metropolitan history when he made his debut as con- ductor of Die Walkure on November 25. How descriptive this title was of Mottl’s function is difficult to say, for he did not re- turn for a second season. He had, certainly, a considerable super- visory hand in the preparation of Parsifal (it was his score, with interpolations of Wagner’s own comments, that Hertz used) , and some attempt was made to give the Sunday-night concerts, with Mottl conducting, the stature of concerts of the Symphony So- ciety or the Philharmonic, but this effort was soon abandoned. His most notable production was the first performance of Die Zauberfldte in German which the Metropolitan had known, on January 11, but when it became II Flauto Magico again on Janu- ary 20, Mottl’s displeasure was not concealed. The change be- came necessary when Goritz, who sang Papageno* in the Ger- man version with Sembrich, Gadski, Dippel, and Plangon, was replaced by Campanari. Ternina sang the First Lady rather poorly in the German version, and Seygard replaced her in the Italian. Critical praise was lavish for the lightness and spirit of Mottl’s direction, but the old level of splendid voices throughout the cast was considerably depressed. One performance of Le Nozze di Figaro on March 4, with Gadski, Sembrich, Seygard, i88 The Metropolitan Opera Scotti, and Campanari, was all the other Mozart Mottl con- ducted at the Metropolitan. As a Wagner conductor, Mottl was admired as the best since Seidl, with whom he had served his apprenticeship under Wag- ner and Richter. New settings for Die Walkiire on November 25 also introduced a new Sieglinde,* Olive Fremstad, whose “warm mezzo voice” was a little taxed by the top of the role, but whose performance was “thoroughly artistic” (the Sun). Ernst Kraus returned a better tenor than ever, and Gadski sang her first Briinnhilde* with poise and sufficient vocal resource. For a change, Grane was visible and Fricka (Homer) was towed from the stage in a chariot preceded by a pair of stuffed rams. This kind of literal faithfulness to Wagner’s stage directions was re- garded as more a distraction than an illusion. Fremstad sang a splendid Venus* in Tannhauser on Decem- ber 4 (with Kraus* and Temina), but the steady succession of Parsifals and Temina’s uncertain vocal condition made the sea- son’s other Wagner performances rather hit-or-miss. A Tristan of January 9 found Temina unable to appear, Marion Weed’s a small-scaled voice for Isolde,* and Walker a variable Brangane* to go with Kraus. Ternina recovered to sing Isolde on January 22, with Homer winning new respect as Brangane,* and Mottl, fi- nally given a cast he could depend upon, stirring a steady surge of drama in the first act and winning approval for the exceptional mood he created in the second act. The Ring cycle was given during the last week of the season, without distinction. Hertz conducted the first and last works, Mottl the intermediate two. After a post-season tour, a final Cotter d'dmmerung on April 24 provided an opportunity for the public to show its feeling for Temina, whose health made her return doubtful. She did not sing at the Metropolitan again, but her later career as a teacher in Zagreb had unforeseen consequences when she singled out a young girl named Zinka Kune in 1921 and urged her on to an operatic career: it was the first step toward fame of Zinka Mila- nov. For an oddity of the Mottl career, it was he who was in charge of Carmen when Calvd returned to the company on February 1. Dippel as Jos6 took a good bit of roughing from Calve, in a per- formance that found her in a chair-throwing mood. The natural- Operas and Artists, 2903-1904 189 istic creation of old was now self-conscious exhibitionism, and not as well sung as before. On February 17, when Gustav Hin- richs was the conductor for Oavalleria, Calv6 stamped her foot impatiently when he would not take her tempo. For a final demonstration of “star” temperament in this non-star ensemble, Calve chose the Sunday-evening concert of April 24, when Mottl agreed to accompany her at the piano in a group of Provencal songs. As they were about to begin, she turned and asked him to transpose the music a tone lower. When he refused, she walked off the stage and out of the Metropolitan’s history. When she re- appeared in New York, it was with Ilammcrstcin (1907). 'l*o the presence of Mottl may be traced the only occurrence in Metropolitan history of the name of Boicldicu among its com- posers: his I.d Hame blanche was given in German on Febru- ary 1 3 as Die uvkve Dame. Its pretty tunes were neatly suited to the light voice of Frau Naval, who made his debut as George Brown* (d). but the general opinion was that such people as Gadski, Homer, and Reiss were wasted in so tenuous a work. It was not repeated. The direction the repertory was to take under the influence of Caruso was already beginning to attract attention. Ten operas were given m Italian, only three in French, with A'fno Ackt6, whom the Sun described as “intolerable,” singing the Juliette of Romeo ct Julie tic. The strictures against Gran’s ballet resulted in a new prominence for this ensemble, with an abbreviated Cop- jnHia given four times as part of a double bill. On the first occa- sion (February 13), it followed a Cavalleria delayed twenty-five minutes till Calve decided that a sufficient number of boxes were occupied fur her to sing, Fur tea Varasi (Swanilda), Tekla Braun (Frantz), and Augusta Francioli (Coppelius) were the principal dancers. In a seasonal retrospect on April 24, Henderson rated the com- ing of Ftemstud as the third most important happening of the season (Pamfal and Caruso naturally took precedence). Aside from a S.mtuzza* of January 15, which was beyond her vocal range, there was nothing but good to be said of her: “She has great magnetism, a rich and temperamental voice, a warm and eloquent face . a finely wrought dramatic style of singing and high intelligence." 1 ^ 0 Ihc \ h'twpvlltan ( >;vr« With an income of the domed a profit of $60000. It would have been larger h-nl it u d »rn. C-nmcd* police to charge off productions t ’ the bm. C* .«■ tnr vc.n » n which they were introduced rather than amosfi.-mg than over a neriod of years. r«> 4 uy's The power latent m Parsifal ami thr y-nui tier m t aim,, pro. vided the twin impulses for t .fminl * '*'• w,, d • *• ' u 1 ''hjjht decline in public interest was reflated m the t.d.»l «d right per- fonnanccs of the Wagner work m tin. -ravn. ratlm Hum the dozen of the year before, but right i> a • • no !«■:.»' h- nm.d-er of Parsifal performances for any to tern vvu-k -u - n 1 .ms u»n tract now stood at tint tv prst-am.m - . m< ; f n.<! .1. "'it half the total of operas gnrn m this sea mu ».% u • u*h"< uj with Caruso. No doubt Council was the tm.t t- •!-;•! ->ir that thev could not be combined Parsifal was irrshetird bv thr fust Ken.! . ■ 1 nn.m Nudtea when it was given on thr evening >»! 1 bau> -o'- ;o. I ’as N«»*,rtn- licr z„|) in the present' r of I'tim- 1 - r :e.!u ■ h u> am! I mur Johann von 1 lohenlohe t dual, ’rn A ' < ! ■>. -s * f 1 > Vontran exponents of the past i l’ 1 10 -fad h.i>* he; ' ; .* m- <■ - >1 1 bu-m ber 1), there was strong division > >1 -.nif r o -of m ’o,- pnrv., though it was universally agirc*l that both w : <■ ’• -1 'of huh biel preferred the seductive ’.••lifhmhi'- >>! Imm.ud dr.pifr a little strain on her top tones m the g.ud-n nu-. ! f 1 b-i .n m dined toward the subtler nitrlleCo d < 0 f ■ ’ N .1, who also sang the music with greater bi \i-bh and r> *w-$ Neither had the lyric line of Tcmin.i, but a long .hvantatmn •••< Ueudrisou m the Sun of January S, * » j- > 5 males the ha .' • <i«i* that New 1 otk ers would hear a splendid Knmhv * u .no. • .m u i' • ••■} rl vv.». given. In this season if was live of V»t>h. a, tbrr- m 1 o-su .tad As a reaction to the extravagances that ha t * ■mu- snt.» t -alvc s 1 Beginning ot» tkt*d*t ; , thr l ; ’ •> t.y Henry Savage played right |K-:in:iutt u Nr* f s < ' - --‘N *’» tour. Walter RolhvulS lomlmtcd. 4si.| m ! ■ ! •-••• o Wo lennan (lie later married Moenu tu-.* ,. iNn-as t • . >' !. • .< inn Metropolitan fame, as t iem'-uam jr.i . hr s' i ? ?tu silent second K | a . Kuudn Operas and Artists, 1904-1905 191 Carmen in recent years, the first performance by Fremstad on November 26 earned rapturous approval from all sections of the press. Aldrich in the Times commended its “bewitching grace,” Henderson (in the Sun) termed it the “Carmen of Bizet and M£rimee, not the traditional Carmen of the Metropolitan.” Sal6za, in splendid voice after an absence of three seasons, sang a fine Josd, with Journet as Escamillo and Ackte as Micaela.* Fremstad was also scheduled for the Carmen of January 7, but she was out of voice and Anna Amaud, an instructress in the newly established Opera School, took her place. She received vir- tually no credit for her soundly routined performance, for this was the evening when the stage bridge collapsed during Act I. Fifteen members of the chorus fell eight feet to the stage, amid confusion and screams. Fortunately, the injuries were confined to cuts, bruises, and a few broken limbs. The advent of Caruso and the strong restraints placed on Con- ried’s choice of operas for the Monday-night series gave it even brighter luster as the accepted night for socializing and display. Its official status was discussed by Henderson in the Sun of March 5: “The smart set, which is a very stupid set indeed . . . dislikes anything so serious as the great tragedies of Wagner. . . . So Mr. Conried was informed . . . that he would not be per- mitted to give Wagner on Monday night, the fashionable night of the week.” The exceptions, which are not among the “great tragedies,” were Die Meistersinger and Lohengrin. Of the other thirteen Mondays, Caruso was heard on nine, in a review of all the roles he sang in this season save Edgardo in Lucia. For the opening on November 21, it was Rhadames in Aida , 1 with Eames, Walker, and Scotti, followed by such pre- vious roles as Alfredo, Cavaradossi, Canio, and Rodolfo. When Caruso was absent, Saldza was present, in Carmen, Faust, and Romdo. The Monday-night audience also saw the first performance of Donizetti’s Lucrezia Borgia on December 5, with Caruso as Gennaro,* Scotti as Alfonso,* and Walker as Maffio Orsini.* Maria de Macchi was engaged, at Caruso’s suggestion, to sing Borgia.* All of Caruso’s art could not make the work interesting, though Walker sang the famous Brindisi extremely well. The 1 For the first time the ballet in the temple scene was included. 192 The Metropolitan Opera handsome stage production attracted favorable attention, but the work was not repeated, nor has it been since. More durable was a revival of La Gioconda, for which Grau had commissioned the production, in his last season, for Ternina. Neither was present when it reached the stage on November 24, 1904, with much the best cast Ponchielli’s music had ever en- joyed in New York. Caruso as Enzo Grimaldi* sang “Cielo e mar ” with “gorgeous tone and fine sentiment” (the Sun), and Nordica (Gioconda*), Walker (particularly admired as La Cieca*), Homer (Laura*), and Plangon (Alvise*) made a gen- erally strong showing. Also good was the ballet. Eugenio Giral- doni, however, in his debut as Bamaba* (d) belied the repute he had won by creating Scarpia in Tosca by singing in a dis- appointingly crude manner. In the custom of Gioconda revivals, this one ran its course after a total of eight performances in two seasons. Nordica’s remark, late in her career, may have its per- tinence: after studying the role and singing it dozens of times, she still could not relate the story. Caruso’s singing was also a “continuous joy” (Henderson) when Un Ballo in maschera was given on February 6, with Eames a splendid Amelia,* Scotti an excellent Renato,* and Homer, Joumet, and Plancon completing a strong cast. This effort had twice the success of Grau’s revival in 1902— that is, it was given twice rather than once. Again, for reasons having to do largely with the foolishness of the libretto, the able voices had no further chance to sing the inviting music until 1914. The special qualities that marked Caruso’s unique place not only in the esteem but in the affection of his public may be seen gradually emerging in this season. His voice and personality re- stored the importance of Edgardo in Lucia to its rightful place so that, in Henderson’s words, “ 'Lucia, ending with the mad scene,’ is no longer seen on the theater bills.” Thanks to his su- perb singing of the tomb scene, Edgardo was now a character with an end as well as a beginning. “He is the owner of a glori- ous voice,” ran the comment in the same paper on another occa- sion, “and he is today at the height of his popularity. He de- serves all his honors and wears them with charming modesty.” That modesty and the general artistic stature of Conried’s Operas and Artists, 1904-1905 193 principals made it seem even more an indignity that they should be required to participate in a glorified vaudeville show for the manager’s benefit when Die Fledermaus was given for the first time on February 16. As the merely excellent cast of Sembrich (Rosalinde* ) , Dippel (Gabriel*), Walker (Orlofsky*), Bella Alten (Adele* ), Reiss (Alfred*), and Goritz (Warden*) would hardly justify the raised prices charged the previous year for Parsifal, Conried required all other star members of the company to participate in a concert during the ball scene. Scotti sang “Quand ’ero paggio” from Falstaff, Fremstad offered Delibes’s “Les Filles de Cadix,” Eames joined Plangon and Francisco Nu- bio in the trio from Faust, and Nordica was required to pretend she was Gilda in the R igoletto quartet with Caruso, Homer, and Giraldoni. There have been later occasions when self-respecting artists did incongruous things on the stage of the Metropolitan, but not for the profit of one individual. The general tone of the press was of more than casual regret that the manager had chosen this device for his benefit purposes, and it spilled over into a reaction against Fledermaus itself. Sem- brich’s lively Rosalinde and Dippel’s capable Eisenstein were approved, but not the conducting of Nahan Franko or the suit- ability of the theater for a work with spoken dialogue. In the aftermath of the reviews Conried attended a public dinner at which he said the critics took themselves too seriously. When his off-the-record remarks were published, he declared that, in the phrase of the day, he had been “misreported.” Misreported or misquoted, he did not serve the theater’s interest best by his action in giving Die Fledermaus as he did, or by his reaction to the reaction of the press. Also retrogressive, in the view of the press, was the production of Meyerbeer’s Huguenots with an all-star ensemble, though Caruso did not know the role of Raoul* and would consent to study it only in Italian. Thus it was Gli Ugonotti when it was heard on February 3, with such old favorites as Nordica (Valen- tine), Sembrich (Marguerite), Scotti (De Nevers), and Plan- fon (Saint-Bris) in familiar places. Caruso’s performance was tonally superb, and Sembrich, though not in best voice, sang her florid air so well that her colleagues on stage joined in the ap- 194 T/ie Metropolitan Opera plause. That intangible called “style,” however, was in short sup- ply, and Conried ventured no more Meyerbeer after three repeti- tions of this revival. With Mottl gone and no replacement for him yet engaged, virtually all the Wagner in this season was conducted by Hertz. Most of the personnel he had to work with were the same as in the several previous seasons, but one newcomer of quality was Heinrich Knote, from Munich. His debut as Walther* in Die Meistersinger on December 3 won him the praise of Henderson as “the best lyric tenor we have yet received from Germany.” “Temperament . . . elegance . . . warmth” were among the attributes that made him welcome. More admired even than the generally able vocal work of Ackte (Eva*), Van Rooy (Sachs), Goritz (Beckmesser* ) , and Reiss (David) was the staging by Fuchs. It bettered not only the inept procedures of Grau days, but also the previously admired productions of the German sea- sons in its detail, plausibility, and harmonious adjustment to the music. Knote was consistently admirable in his other roles, which in- cluded Tannhauser* on December 7, Lohengrin* on Decem- ber 10, and a Tristan* on January 11 with Nordica, Walker, and Van Rooy. Rarely had the tenor’s music of the Erst act of Sieg- fried sounded as well as it did when Knote appeared on Janu- ary 19, with Van Rooy, Reiss, and Goritz. The Briinnhilde* of Senger-Bettaque (she had sung smaller roles in 1889-90 as Katti Bettaque) was well below the acceptable. Knote was welcome in the next several years whenever he could secure leave from Mu- nich, and was still admired for musicianship when he came back, a much older man, with a traveling troupe in the twenties (see page 368 ) . Some remembered him fondly for reasons other than his qualities as a performer. On arrival in New York he told an interviewer that his stay would be memorable whether the public liked him or not, because he had the chance, at last, to hear Caruso. To satisfy public demand as well as private necessity, Conried offered two Ring cycles this year outside the subscription series, on Thursday evenings beginning with January 5. Hertz was the conductor throughout. The quality of production was about as it had been, when the scheduled singers were in voice. When Operas and Artists , 1904-1905 195 they were not, as in the Gotterddmmerung of January 26, when Burgstaller was ill and replaced by Dippel, and Nordica had to sing though she would have preferred not to, the thinness of the company was evident. Dippel’s reputation as a replacement par excellence was often tested, in these circumstances, and rarely found wanting. He had occasion to sing sixteen different roles in three languages this year, in a variety of musical styles ranging from Traviata to Tristan. The appalling sequence is worth repetition: in order of occurrence the cast of characters in Dippel’s personal drama included Alfredo, Ernesto (Don Pasquale), Almaviva (II Bar- bier e), Parsifal, Florestan ( Fidelio ), Froh ( Rheingold ), Don Jose, Turiddu, Edgardo, Cavaradossi, Rodolfo, Siegfried ( Got - terddmmerung ) , Walther, Tristan, Eisenstein (Fledermaus ) , and Tannhauser. On one occasion (February 18) he was asked to sing Tannhauser in place of Burgstaller, but begged off, plead- ing indisposition himself. Burgstaller began, but broke down during Act I, and Dippel was brought to the theater— having downed a hearty meal— as one indisposed tenor replacing an- other. After this, his fame as a “one-man opera company" was secure. Somewhat like the season of Melba’s Briinnhilde and the on- stage death of Armando Castelmary, this one of the collapsed bridge in Carmen struggled through various untoward incidents. Melba herself came back for a Boheme on December 16, plead- ing bronchitis and singing sotte voce through most of the per- formance with Caruso, Joumet, Scotti, and Alten (Musetta*). She failed to appear for a scheduled Gilda on December 31 (Alma Webster-Powell took her place not too successfully, while Caruso sought to compensate the audience for its disappoint- ment by singing a high D flat at the end of the second-act duet), and was never again a member of the Metropolitan company. There was no fatality, but Saleza narrowly escaped a serious ac- cident in Romeo on February 5 as he was disappearing off-stage after the garden scene. A sharp twang attracted his attention roofward, and he was barely able to scurry aside before a 600- pound counterweight plunged past him, through the stage floor, and into the cellar. Beethoven and Mozart were reduced to a total of three per- 196 The Metropolitan Opera formances this season: a poor Fidelio on December 24 (Senger- Bettaque was the Leonore* ) and an erratic Nozze di Figaro on November 30 and December 31. Sembrich (Susanna) and Eames (Countess) were excellent as ever, and Bella Alten, mak- ing her debut as Cherubino* (d) had to repeat “Voi che sapete.” Blass was a thick-voiced Figaro, Scotti the flexible Aim a viva.* The most that could be said for Nahan Franko’s conducting was that he was the first native-born American to lead an opera in the Metropolitan. Whatever the patchy picture this season presents in retro- spect, it made considerable money ($125,326) for Conried and his associates. This summary of expenditure, against a typical Grau year, was published a year later when intimations in the press that he was cutting comers to amass profits angered Con- ried. It was his contention, supported by the figures, that he was spending on the average ten thousand dollars more a week than Grau had spent. Whatever their contemporary significance, the figures on the following page have pertinence today, in any dis- cussion of operatic costs. 1905-1906 The principle that no beginning at the Metropolitan is official unless it has to do with Faust was proved on January 3, 1906 to apply even to labor relations. According to Conried’s planning, this date was set aside for the first appearance of Caruso in a French opera, and the return of Eames to Marguerite, one of her favorite roles. It remains memorable today as the first 1 in the long line of union negotiations that have rewritten the kind of budget quoted (on page 197) and transformed the whole prob- lem of giving opera at the Metropolitan. For their evening’s work in this Faust, Eames would receive $1,500, Caruso $1,344, Scotti $600, and Plangon $500, a total of more than $3,900 for the four principals. For their evening’s work, the choristers would receive whatever part of fifteen dol- lars would be prorated from a week’s work of seven perform- ances. It would not, in any case, be more than $2.14 per night. According to custom, the members of the chorus had been 1 A brief walkout of the German chorus in 1884 failed for lack of organization. Operas and Artists, 1905-1906 197 engaged individually by Conned before the season started. It was not until it was under way that the union was formed and the demands presented. An increase of wages to twenty-five dol- lars per week was sought, also an end of the practice of trans- porting choristers on overnight trips in day coaches. Conried Grav. Conried Production 1902-~03 I9O4-O5 Artists and staff $522,315.13 $544,! 53.11 Chorus, ballet, and supers 41,386.13 66,212.13 Orchestra and stage band 85,569.29 95,083.40 Steamship transportation 16,799.29 20,656.07 Railroad transportation, etc 36,209.52 72,687.30* Costumes, wardrobe, wigs 18,110.59 1 5»953-33 Music and royalties 3,5i 7 . 16 3,499.67 Commissions and sundries 2,356.62 4>37 1 -54 Advertising 16,566.91 25,167.42 Totals $743,031.71 $847,783.97 * Includes the post-season tour to the Pacific coast. Maintenance Rent, taxes, and insurance $ 57,078.85 $ 60,300.23 Box office, ushers, doormen . 5,844.50 5-7 2 3- 6 5 Cleaners, porters, etc 7,422.86 10,275.94 Engineer’s depar’t 9>9 34-79 9>7 6 3-43 Electrician’s depar’t 8 ^55*55 10,758.66 Scene painters 13,894.56 7» 1 73- 1 5 Carpenters and stagehands 22,723.38 45*894.59 Property depar’t 9,487.19 16,365.95 Gas and electricity 8,626.34 14,372.84 Storehouse expenses 1,55!.2 9 3,040.00 Tickets and sundries 2,559.61 4,140.46 Opera School 5,7 12 -°4 Director’s and office salaries, gen- eral and European expense ac- counts, etc 4 !, 779.12 43*497-58 Repairs, stage reconstruction, cos- tumes from Europe 2,228.54 98,257.66 Grand totals $933,468.54 $1,177,058.66 iqH I'lie \ fmm *|n4!f4fl < >/v •4 ctnmfera! with . ill M'km. m !c4v mint! ? Ini f f fir • %\Jksr~ we h'fci ! am! 5ls.it hr «,* r ,!, J ant' mfrt j U n n. ! ’ i ■ r ’■ 4" .in -ft ms: He rdmrJ, hay '*v* ci* fit Frit 1 A 1 f 1 ! v U1C |l] if; had si at ns ?: .! lien f he n nmfcrv 4 * I***:-! S firrh, f v Fee •;nr fuels then • fef ci! lit the helirt th ..It t!w •> !u4 s flir turn >! thr M- mnai Mi. tu.ll lhotcvtsu- V nnm i *»!* tu 4 4* |-Fr. rrv ■ itn.. 1 ?!nr I Ira- ’ng fftitcvftvc t Fm m . *!.*•/ •tIuiu f ' ! n u . t . . ttv pr^n.-c c :i C 4iii fieil it t>t\ m flic J tltctrti *n% i 1 lie V ,» mil <•■ that isi:.:;!st When (hr a; «* ; mi nr nt ■- n ; u. he eft .4 it:- 4 1 }'} t* kiwis wctc in p \u X. 41 1 itrv; . JV * h n ' j ; h 4r,. iFe ! h> F ‘Hi the r»>nt tarts t! had u/nc ’ ; , 5 . * 1 1 - 1 x;/h? >*' J, 1 nm the thratrf *,M. , VI: 4' r -, 1 r \ » v. r. :.*!!'■ m f ,, # • t ^. nn.tn n - -c ." i a*. Faifit.* nets ;U ! : h. sU •, ;; ■ : ,/ » . 1 , .. . : 5. : * ; f : ■ ; ’ ■■' : ). r_).i lint t. * nk f ?■ i : : 4 n * . * •' y 5 ; .. 3 * . ; ' l v ; •; Ma.: va jjc* ns whs - h f 4 l. AV-'t . , , . t i A - r . a '■■■■ . , t ' , • ; i ,, ■ u cut, Jv?»a, ;mtte F - 11 iiu ^ % I ?4 4. *, ? •*,*, ; r ; . ' j ■ : i ■ . Fnv • ■: ' : ■' !V; mfmi! 1 5 mm t t nj-i i ^ * , f , . » , , , . , , r , . t % .. , 1 n. * ■■ ?. tlir turn » in- F ** - e .. , , 3 l *f» - ,..4' •’ : ■ S .uni fr me- ■ t ■ j,.. f ; ’ n ' * ' I n ■ ;;- n. V ,T ■' iff tlrrfc hmvh 4 <! Fn n: n * . » ■■ . tr ’ h : 4.4 1 F For Ikrne F r- Hi:! 1 4 vi i : . *4 , y . * ,.M % tt ' * jf >n j* i:y tlir otim mm < .is ,nf 4n.Fi . f ; , . * | : Ul * n ■; , U..: S ■ ‘ . 1 . .-■ : j i e 4n; n{ rmmr, ,un.! v H 4 51 m *he n t t: i ^ *: : - im vmcr mourn- ,i ? r 1 v ( vtti?h : JFi! 1 ■•-:■; fi ; irh the clim.it m 4 f n , n Intwu II’ F.i; ::4 41': IllCilln! tlir Su" wa < ti ni*^- rn!^—n i • ; n a - >f .,■ -■ ." ■ ■ ' .* • ;. f ■ *U:f fires fin? j if *. j:’ i ii-t n^e fs • '4. * | a, : .■ ,pn., v . p . - }s . ** h fra 4i:fli!i4!f F a r it 5*4%?. ■r 1 1 ? . ■ 1 1 Fur thr nn? I - * .* # * f « ‘U I - : .4 •, _ i ■ ■ : i - * , ; , r. . J j v» iliorm Inin t m in •,;|4.rr .. * 4 -V* •n. rn 4 !; '■ •: F nn Item* 4tul * i 'a? fi~: * t . nf : tui! if *v. 4 m :,? fm 1 *'C i : : . ' A U a- j. v ; 1 _ sttlkfh ■* , ,t, * * t % C F e : ;ly - 4 , J::;. ; .r. tlir cvrmtm m,r 1 .li inux.C r. U tF; I e --.j ’ ,! .4 : n H ■■ ; ; 4 ■- K:n-j M ill 1*4 inn !e. * F> Is j » 1 w . ;F f , , . *. , ' v •: • •.» Ruhnt film I JcIl.l'iS 1 /- <,*. 1 4 % V* Operas and Artists, iqof u;oh H)c) American Federation of Labor) because of the contract situa- tion, the choristers decided to accept Conried’s compromise of- fer and go back to work the next day. Salaries were raised to twenty dollars per week and better transportation facilities were guaranteed. In addition, the choristers were paid for the whole week of the strike. Not much progress toward strong organiza- tion was made until 1020, when the management agreed to hire choristers onh from the (.hand Opera Choral Alliance, It was not until the formation of the American Guild of Musical Art- ists ( rq^) that the chorus had real bargaining power at the Metropolitan. In Iris second Faust, on January v Caruso wore a more becom- ing wig, and lie took off iris white gloves before breaking into the jail to restate Marguerite (Fames) With all his fine sound, the press did not endorse these changes as the final touches to qualify him as Jean tie Reszke’s successor. Altogether, Caruso's conscientious effort to make himself useful m the French reper- tory hat! mure success in Dorr Jose* on Match y, I Irs version of the "Air de jlcur" was marked In "unexpected delicacy and fin- ish." sard the Suit, with a "warmth of passion" not surpassed by any previous Jose. The storm of applause it aroused tested Ca msu's restraint severeh and, rather than repeat the an. he finally rose, bowed, and slumped track to his knees beside flu* plainly nettled Ftcmst.nl. Her alluring, dramatically cogent performance pleased all save those convinced that without chair throwing and disheveled hair. Carmen was not Carmen Bessie Abott sang a rather timid Mirada,* IManyon a vocally gruff Fscamillo that hinted the approaching decline of his career Vigtta conducted Caruso's performances climbed upward to forty in New York this w inter causing Henderson to wide on March 18: "The pub- lic has gone to the opera in the season just ended almost solely for the purpose of hearing Fnruo Caruso The invariable request at the box office lias been 'Can you let me have seats for Caruso's next appearance?' ’’ To accommodate those who preferred the terror in a varied repertory, I )om/t Ur's La Lavunta was revived on November 3 «j; likewise l.a Somtamhula on Dev ember it; and Marta on Febru- ary eg All had the c entra! focus of celebrated tenor airs, of course, and Caruso's dazzling case m "Spnitn genfr/e," las artless fool I if: lit: 1 i 1 200 The Metropolitan Opera ing as Elvino, and his impassioned M’appari ” as Lionel kept the audiences content. None of these was sung with the kind of lightness the discriminating critics thought desirable, but the vocal flow could hardly be resisted. Edyth Walker’s fine singing of “O mio Fernando” added to the pleasures of Favorita, as did Sembrich’s Adina and Lady Harriet in the other works. In Marta, the soprano’s interpolated “Last Rose” was charmingly sung, and there were kind words also for Walker’s Nancy,* if not for the excessively debonair Plunkett* of Plangon. The coming of Hansel und Gretel on November 25, with Humperdinck in the audience, was marked by some learned analysis that must have made the composer wonder whether he had, in fact, “meant all that.” Henderson saw the Hexenritt as a take-off on the “Ride of the Valkyries,” the laughter of the chil- dren a reminiscence of the Rhinemaidens. Nevertheless, he found it “masterly,” “charming,” and “delightful” as sung by Bella Alten (Gretel*), Goritz (Peter*), and Marion Weed (Gertrude*). Lina Abarbanell, then a soubrette of the Irving Place Theater, now a still-active collaborator in the production of musical plays on Broadway, acted Hansel* appealingly, though her voice was small for the big auditorium. Hertz made the most of his able cast. Much comment was aroused by Conried’s decision to present, as Sulamith* in a revival of Die Konigin von Saba on Novem- ber 22 the youthful Brooklyn-born soprano Marie Rappold. Not only did she have no European training; she had not sung on any stage prior to her Metropolitan debut. Seven years of study with Oscar Saenger had given her a firm vocal foundation, and Con- ried’s personal coaching in dramatic action prepared her for a performance of quite acceptable quality. The judgment was that European training was not indispensable for success on the operatic stage, but the legion of novices who have followed Rap- pold rarely came with so much deliberate preparation. A vari- able cast, including Walker, Knote, Van Rooy, and Alten, could not revive the previous interest in Goldmark’s score. It has not been produced since. Rappold lacked the repertory to appear frequently in her first season, singing (according to the Sun) a “singularly sweet and fresh” Elsa* in Lohengrin on December 30, and also taking part 201 Operas and Artists, 1905-1906 in Der Zigeunerbaron when Conried added it to the Metropoli- tan repertory on February 15. For the customary purposes, the action was suspended in Act III and most of the company’s stars were led in, as captives of Baron Barinkay, to sing— for their freedom and Conried's benefit. Nordica was announced, but pleaded illness (induced perhaps by the memory of the previous year’s Rigoletto quartet), but there was easily ten dollars’ value in the sequence of solos by Joumet, Sembrich, Fremstad, Eames, Plangon, Caruso, and Scotti, the last two singing their famous version of the duet from La Forza del Destino. At the end, four eminent Wagnerians— Burgstaller, Knote, Van Rooy, and Blass —presented themselves in costume as a Bavarian quartet. The critical abuse this year was taken in silence by Conried, who could endure complaints in the warmth of his twenty- thousand-dollar profit. In Der Zigeunerbaron, Rappold ( Arsena*) headed a cast that included Homer (Czipra*), Dippel (Barin- kay*), Alten (Saffi*), and Goritz (Zsupan*), with Bauermeister singing her last new part (Mirabella* ) in her last Metropolitan season. There was no repetition, and only one offering of Die Fledermaus, on Thanksgiving night, November 30. Both Strauss works were conducted by Nahan Franko. The well-regarded Knote came early and stayed late, begin- ning with Tannhduser on November 25, with Jeanne Jomelli a new and small-voiced Elisabeth.* Caruso would not sing Man- rico at this period of his career (he contended that it was “all shouting”), and Knote obliged with his first Italian role any- where on January 19, enjoying a considerable success. The Sun commended his “pleasing lyric quality” in “Ah, si ben mio” and noted that “Dx quella pira ” (transposed) was “boldly given.” The management was saved from the most dismal of all operatic happenings, a change of bill, 1 by using a Helene Noldi as Leo- nora in place of the ailing Nordica. Although identified as “lately prima donna of the Italian Opera in Mexico City,” Noldi did not match the Metropolitan standard, and was not heard again. Knote was the Gotterdammerung Siegfried* on December 22, which the Sun— now rather persistently harassing Conried— 1 Nonsubscribers may ask for a refund in such circumstances. Sub- scribers have no privilege in any circumstances. 202 The Metropolitan Opera termed a “dress rehearsal” for the full cycle to be given the fol- lowing week. The Noms and Alberich were omitted, but Knote’s “thoroughly dignified . . . musical” singing and the command- ing Briinnhilde of Nordica atoned for much that was lax in the stage direction and rough in Hertz’s conducting. As a new de- parture, the season’s first cycle was given during five days, begin- ning on the afternoon of Christmas and ending on December 29. Consequently, the Briinnhildes were all different (Walker, Weed, and Nordica), the tenor roles sung by Dippel (Siegmund), Knote (young Siegfried) and Burgstaller (Loge and the elder Siegfried). Fremstad sang the Siegfried Briinnhilde* on Decem- ber 13 with the usual lack of critical review. When it was re- peated on March 8, it was described by the Sun as an “improve- ment over her former very questionable performance.” The two-season run of Parsifal at extra prices was now over: it was given on January 1 1 at the usual five-dollar top before an audience of modest size and conventional attire. Fremstad’s Kundry, in the words of Henderson, rose in the second act “to a level of thrilling power . . . seldom reached at the Metro- politan,” and Burgstaller’s Parsifal showed the refinements that come with repetition. Of the season’s four performances, the most attention was directed to one on Washington’s Birthday. Many persons from out of town were present, applause was dis- couraged, and the whole performance had the ceremonial air now associated with Good Friday. The other Wagner casts of this season were familiar and of routine quality. At a Sunday- night concert on February 25 Hertz included the rarely heard original version of the prelude to Act III of Tannhauser, known as “Tannhauser’s Pilgrimage.” This was the year in which the one hundred and fiftieth an- niversary of Mozart’s birth was widely celebrated in European theaters, but the Metropolitan offered only Don Giovanni, twice. The first performance, on January 27, brought testimonials to “the vitality of Mozart’s genius” (the Sun), but only Scotti as the Don and Sembrich as Zerlina matched the occasion. Nordica was less good as Donna Anna than she had been as Elvira, and Jomelli as Elvira* was not so good as Eames would have been. The latter, however, had sung Aida the day before and was not available. For a change, the staging was approved, save for the Operas and Artists , 1905-1906 203 ever-perplexing ball. Musicians played on stage, as the score di- rected, but the three styles of dancing required by the action were sadly muddled. Le Nozze di Figaro was announced for March 12, and canceled when Eames begged off. The only pos- sible alternative was Fremstad, who knew the part only in Ger- man. This being a “Sembrich night,” the audience was asked to feast instead on Acts II and III of Don Pasquale (Sembrich, Scotti, and Dippel), with Caruso, Campanari, and Alten follow- ing in Pagliacci. This was not the most remarkable of the sea- son’s double bills, however. On January 31 Alten sang Gretel and Nedda in the same evening, and on March 18 Act II and the lesson scene of II Barbiere were preceded by two acts of Tosca. The excuse for the Rossini-Puccini combination was the seasonal farewells of Eames and Sembrich. For Dippel, it was just an evening’s hard work— he sang both Cavaradossi and Almaviva- Lindoro. The profit figures quoted previously for the Conried seasons were swelled by earnings of $111,0x8 in this one. The bright pic- ture thus presented was considerably dimmed in mid-April when the company had the misfortune to be playing in San Francisco and lost its entire stock of scenery, costumes, and properties in the earthquake and fire. Considerable loss was incurred when the remainder of the long tour had to be canceled and the com- pany transported back to New York. Among the worst afflicted were the orchestral players, whose instruments were damaged beyond salvage. Sembrich deepened the special niche she held in the affections of her public by announcing, on her return to New York, that she would give a benefit concert to help the musicians replace their instruments. Carnegie Hall was crowded for the program on May 6, for which she and her pianist, Isi- dore Luckstone, contributed their services. The proceeds to the musicians were nearly $9,000. Among those who watched the money-making activities of Conried at the Metropolitan with a thoughtful eye was Oscar Hammerstein. He had sold his old Manhattan Opera House at Thirty-fourth Street and Broadway (the Macy corner) for com- mercial construction and taken over a site farther west on Thirty- fourth Street. On February 13, 1906 he informed the press that the new theater would bear the same name, that he would be- 204 The Metropolitan Opera gin operatic production in the fall, and the artists with whom he was “negotiating” included the De Reszkes. The musical sophis- ticates treated this with the skepticism it merited, knowing that even a fee of $3,500 a performance— as Hammerstein airily of- fered— could not lure Jean de Reszke 1 from Nice. As the sum- mer progressed and Hammerstein let it be known that Bond and Melba, Renaud, and Clotilde Bressler-Gianoli, and Cleo- fonte Campanini as musical director, were committed to him, skeptidsm gave way to anticipation. In Conried’s private book for the season 1905-6 there are these notations: Artists Alten, Bella Eames, Emma Fremstad, Olive Homer, Louise Number of perform- ances or length of season 60 performances 9, plus 10 on tour 6 months’ season, 10 performances per month 5 months’ season, 10 per month Fee per performance $100 $i,5°° 3>333*33 marks F r month $1,500 per month, plus $1,000 at season's end Nordica, Lillian Sembrich, Marcella (The artist also to which she sings”) Walker, Edytli Blass, Robert Burgstaller, Alois Caruso, Enrico Goritz, Otto 20 performances 45 performances have “two orchestra seats 40 performances 60 performances 20 performances 40 performances 7 months’ season, 70 performances in New York and else- where $1,250 $1,000 for each performance in $500 $150 $500 7.000 francs 40.000 marks for entire season Joumet, Marcel 63 performances $10,000 for season ($158 a performance) 1 The first of innumerable “De Reszke pupils” to reach New York was Bessie Abott (see page 199), who was admired for a voice of “lovely timbre” and “impeccable purity” of execution (Krehbiel) as Mimi on January 20. 2°5 Operas and Artists, 1906-2907 Artists Knote, Heinrich Planjon, Pol Scotti, Antonio Van Rooy, Anton Number of perform- ances or length of season 40 performances 15 weeks, 10 perform- ances per month 40 performances 40 performances Fee per performance $1,000 per perform- ance 2,500 francs per performance $600 per perform- ance $500 per perform- ance It was further stipulated that Van Rooy was not to sing these parts in succession: the Dutchman, Der Wanderer, Hans Sachs, and Telramund. The name of Luisa Tetrazzini (written “Louisa”) also oc- curs in the book; Conried had acquired an option on her services, hut neglected to exercise it before she made other plans (see page 222). 1906-1907 In a backward look at the success of Oscar Hammerstein’s Man- hattan venture in its second season, Krehbiel ( Chapters of Opera, page 364) recalls his easy discouragement on an earlier occasion (1893) an ^ adds: “It was not strange that many ob- servers refused to believe that he was of the stuff out of which opera managers are made. He did not seem illogical enough.” A dozen additional years in the theater had taught Hammerstein tenacity at least. He hung on just a little longer than the Met- ropolitan dared gamble he would. In consequence he came out of the four-year venture not only with a glorious reputation for musical innovation, but also with cash in hand, all his debts discharged— and still owner of the Manhattan Opera House. A formidable bill of particulars against Conried has accumu- lated from various sources, tending to show that had he done this or that, Hammerstein’s competition would have been ma- terially weakened if not wholly prevented. His oversight in the matter of Tetrazzini has been mentioned, and so great a singer as Maurice Renaud, according to the words of Conried’s own biographer, Montrose Moses (page 217), could have been se- cured for the Metropolitan “if he [Conried] had been a judge of 206 The Metropolitan Opera singers.” In his Memories of the Opera (New York: Ghade Scribner’s Sons; 1941), Giulio Gatti-Casazza recorded a- • * lief that Conried had been remiss in not reserving all the Hence works later produced by Hammerstein. 1 hey had been offeree by the Parisian agent Gabriel Astruc (ibid., page 16S) and re- jected by Conried with “a contemptuous wave of his Hand. As for Hammerstein, Conried would not even discuss hint with Astruc. Nevertheless, it is not easy to grant that even the most astute manager could have signed up every desirable artist of the cfac or secured the rights to every producablc opera just (as Gatti suggested) “to keep them in the desk drawer.” Doubtless H im merstein would have had less immediate success had the Metro- politan been less vulnerable; but his flair, his gambling instinct, and his uninhibited showmanship would have created a problem for the Metropolitan at almost any period of its history. N*tr was Hammerstein’s bias toward a French repertory wholly the re- sult of Conried’s oversight. As we have seen, weakness in this category was an inherent shortcoming of the Metropolitan repr- tory in its early years. The forces Hammerstein set in motion made Gatti more receptive to it for a while, but French opera has gradually dwindled to the virtual vanishing-point again. Even in the best of circumstances it is unlikely that Council's command of the Metropolitan would have lasted longer than it did, but it is somewhat ironic that ill health and the 1 laminer- stem menace began to creep up on him as he began to get a turner grasp of how a first-rank theater should be conducted. In this season for example, he added two durable works to the reperory— adama Butterfly 1 and Salome— experimented with 0 0 ers 0 quality— Puccini's Manon Lescaut and Giordano’s o^dgave the only hearings in Metropolitan history to Jterhoz s Le Damnation de Faust. Conned’s ailment (sciatic neuritis, affecting his legs) was was given kWashSeton ^ r ^ rmai ! CC ! “ an English-language: version, company. The same £J ’ D ' C ” rly m November by the Henry Savage New York, on Novemhe^ 1 ^ P^ e ^ c< ^ Butterfly at the Garden Theater. Sheehan as Pinkerton a ^ za ^ zamos y ’ n the title role, Joseph conducted. ’ d Winifred G °ff as Sharpless. Walter Roth well Operas and Artists, 1906-1907 207 common knowledge even before the season began. Caruso’s greatly important part in the Metropolitan scheme of operation was threatened by his arrest and temporary jailing, and this brought Conried to the brink of a breakdown. The opening per- formance was one week off when Caruso was arrested in the monkey house of the Central Park Zoo on November 16, charged with annoying a passer-by, Mrs. Hannah Stanhope. The charges were not spelled out, but the implication was that the tenor had made “improper advances,” even unto pinching. The tenor pro- tested that his ignorance of English had been imposed upon and he had been victimized. The complainant did not appear in court, but the evidence of the arresting officer was credited, and Caruso was convicted and fined. Worry about the public re- action and alarm over the possible consequences to the box office aggravated Conried’s ailment, and he came to the opera house infrequently in the early weeks of the season. The public regard for Caruso was affirmed at the earliest op- portunity, when he sang Rodolfo in Boheme on November 28. The standees and gallery patrons applauded the sight of him when the curtain rose, but he was a very nervous singer until he launched into the “Racconto.” It was superbly delivered, and the theater rang with applause. Thereafter the evening and Ca- ruso’s part of the season proceeded without incident. Geraldine Farrar’s illustrious career at the Metropolitan had been initiated two days before, as Juliette* (d) in the season- opening performance of Romeo on November 26. With her was Charles Rousseli£re as Romeo* (d) and a new conductor from France, Simon Bovy. The twenty-four-year-old Farrar’s successes in Berlin, both musical and romantic, had been well publicized, and critical resistance to her was more than moderate. The Tribune described her as a “beautiful vision,” with “a voice of exquisite quality in the middle register.” The Sun report con- curred in valuing the voice as “a full bodied lyric soprano, with tendencies toward the dramatic,” but declared “Miss Farrar has yet thrown but a pebble into the vast sea of vocal art.” M. Sim- ard (not identified by a first name) made his debut as Mer- cutio,* (d) and the Nurse was Von Januschowsky of earlier sea- sons, now known as Georgine Neuendorff. Both Rousseli£re and Bovy were commended for their work. 208 The Metropolitan Opera Other singers introduced in this first week were Marie Matt- feld as Hansel* (d) on November 29, Carl Burrian as Tann- hauser* (d) on November 31, and Riccardo Stracciari as Ger- mont* (d) on December 1, with Sembrich and Caruso. Mattfeld sang small roles creditably for years, and Burrian endured till the cessation of German opera more than a decade later. Although Stracciari became a well-esteemed baritone of the Italian school, his debut was inauspicious— -"throaty, tremulous . . . pallid” were Henderson’s first words for him, replaced later by more favoring ones. Hammerstein intended to open his new theater in direct com- petition with the Metropolitan opening, but its interior still lacked some finishing touches when the audience assembled for I Puritani on December 3. Official "society” paid little attention to the upstart venture, but the social set was sufficiently repre- sented by H. H. Flagler, Rawlins Cottenet, Miss May Callender, E. Berry Wall, James de Wolf Cutting, and Mrs. Charles Childs to give West Thirty-fourth Street an uncommon clog of “wag- onettes and automobiles.” More than 3,100 crowded in to see the house and hear I Puritani , and there were great cries of “Viva Bond!” when Mario Ancona, a New York favorite of ten years before, made his entry as Riccardo. The more knowing shushed them to silence, saving their greeting for a roaring wel- come to the tenor when he did appear. Light as his voice was, he used it "like a great artist,” said the Sun, adding encomiums for his “delicacy, refinement, grace, and elegance.” Cleofonte Cam- panini conducted ably a cast that included Regina Pinkert (El- vira), but it was clear that orchestra and principals were still feeling their way. In characteristic humor, Hammerstein made a speech declaring his sole responsibility for what was done. It had been his desire to establish "opera for the masses,” but New York standards were too high for that to be done at low prices. Hence he was concentrating on “the best and greatest.” The Metropolitan was crowded on the same night for a performance of Marta in which Sembrich sang “The Last Rose of Summer” twice. Caruso did not repeat “M’appari.” Maurice Renaud made his debut at the Manhattan on De- cember 5 in a Rigoletto that marked him as “a big man physi- cally who has a voice of great power” (the Sun). Bonci was a Operas and Artists, 1906 -1907 209 splendid Duke, Pinkert a satisfactory Gilda. The Metropolitan offering was Giordano's Fedora for the first time in America, with the beautiful Lina Cavalieri as Fedora* (d) winning ac- claim for a “very pretty” voice, an “exquisite figure,” a face that was “a delight to see" (all the praise is Henderson’s). There was too little for Caruso to do as Loris Iparrow,* however, or for Scotti as Dc Siricx. * The opera was given six times in Conried’s last two seasons, but not again until 192}, with Maria Jeritza. Farrar was heard both as the Berlioz Matguerite* when Le Damnation de Faust was introduced on December 7 and in a new production of the conventional Gounod Faust on December 71. Rousselicre and 1’lanyon were philosopher and devil in both. The stage arrangement devised tor Berlioz’s “dramatic legend” by Raoul Cunsbourg of Monte Carlo in 1894 was used, with enough applause for the ballet of the sylphs to be repeated. The general judgment, however, was expressed by Henderson, who said "the vvoik is deficient in action and its pictures have no valid connection.” Of the two Marguerites. Farrar was happier in the music of Gounod. I Ier pei forma me was characterized in the Sun as "Dramatically, one of the finest . . . seen on the Metropoli- tan stage” and "exquisitely sung” in the garden scene. Hammer- stein introduced his own Faust (Gounod's) as a eoimterattrae- tion to the Berlioz, with Charles D.dmores a sweet -voiced Faust and Pauline Don.dda a convincing Marguerite. hi the unfolding panorama of Hammerstein's activity, not the least pleasmc was provided by tfie always vital and sometimes fervent conducting of Campantm. Neither Don Giovanni nor Carmen nor Aida had recently been done at the Metropolitan with the verve C.tmjnmmi imparted to them in a single week be- ginning on December is, Bouci’s Ottavio added to the "real joy" the Sun found in the playing of the score, though the cast was otherwise indifferent. December 17 was the occasion of Reuaud’s first Don, and ”a handsomer, more dashing and cap- tivating conqueror lias not lreetr seen in this part," wrote Hen- derson. Campanini conducted Carmen with Calve, and the Bizet score was given nineteen times at tfie Manhattan this season, but theeiedit was not wholly hers Much interest was aroused by the "elemental, frank, physical Carmen'' of Glotilde Btessler Cianoli, 210 The Metropolitan Opera the orchestral playing, and a well-drilled ensemble that “rose to notable heights.” With so fine a French tenor as Dalmores to sing Jose, and Donalda as Micaela, the major pattern of Ham- merstein activity began to be evident. A demonstration in which Campanini and Hammerstein were both called out for bows followed Aida on December 19 (with Eleanora de Cisneros, Amadeo Bassi, and Ancona) . When Vigna sought to arouse the same effect in a Metropolitan performance on December 21, with Caruso, Stracciari (Amonasro*), and Celestina Boninsegna a lovely-sounding Aida,* the results were judged to be merely boisterous. If there was no place for Melba at the Metropolitan, there was a great audience to hear her sing Violetta at the Manhattan on January 2, with Bassi and Renaud, though Eames, Caruso, and Scotti managed to fill the Metropolitan for Tosca the same night. Two nights later Bonci was singing to even more people in UElisir d’amore than were attracted to a repetition of Lakme which Conried was offering in a poorish revival with Sembrich. Rousselihre was an explosive Gerald, Journet a ponderous Nila- kantha, and Bovy failed to animate a performance that moved “like a river of oil” (the Sun). When Renaud returned to France, Hammerstein had, in Mario Sammarco, another bari- tone New York was glad to hear, commanding attention in Pagliacci (Tonio) for “a fine, fresh, vigorous . . . voice of most excellent quality.” He was also commended for his Marcello in Boheme on March 1, with Bonci, Melba, Gilibert, and Emma Trentini (Musetta). This was one performance Campanini did not conduct. Conried claimed exclusive rights to the Puccini scores, and this one was given with orchestral parts “remem- bered” by an unidentified scholar. To avoid reprisals against him in Italy by Ricordi, Campanini sat in a box while Tanara con- ducted. Having proved without question his ability to give first-class opera, Hammerstein ended his season with boasts of subscrip- tions for his second season already totaling $200,000. Half of this was from the public, half from ticket-brokers, who in those days invested heavily in opera seats for resale to regular cus- tomers (see page 280). It was Hammerstein’s contention that his first season had brought $750,000 to the box office, a figure 211 Operas and Artists , 1906-1907 decried by Krehbiel, in his Chapters of Opera (published in 1908), with these words: “If all that Mr. Hammerstein himself said could have been accepted . . . the lesson of the season would have been that the people who live in New York and come to New York in the winter season were willing to spend . . . one and three quarter million dollars . for this one form of entertainment.” Exaggeration or not, a like figure was quoted to me thirty years later by his son Arthur Hammerstein, who also set the profit of that first season at $100,000. What Krehbiel could not have known as the events were happening was the extraordinary growth of New York’s population during the first years of the century. The march of figures 1 shows 1890 2,507,414 1900 3,437,202 1910 4,766,883 The growth was especially pertinent to opera. Between 1900 and 1910 the foreign-bom element of that population increased by 700,000. Specifically, the Italian-born in New York increased from 145,000 in 1900 to 340,765 in 1910. Adding first-generation children of Italian-born parents, the total rose to 532,310 people with the strongest kind of orientation to the subject of this vol- ume. If all this appears to be a digression, it is by no means so. The figures suggest not only the general reasons why New York could provide support for two opera enterprises, but also the specific reasons why the less pretentious but by no means unworthy Manhattan Opera House developed a public largely its own, as the City Center did several decades later. It also indicates one arm of the pincers that was closing about Conried in a nagging competition. The other arm was made up of some untoward events in his own theater, including the “affair Salome.” The record shows that Conried had reason to suppose that he would have difficulties with Salome, for he used, as a pretext to persuade Strauss to reduce his royalty fee, the possibilities of ob- jections to its subject. Fortunately, Farrar had rejected Conried’s preposterous suggestion that she should sing Salome (Moses: Life of Heinrich Conried, page 219), but the manager deter- 1 13th Census, Report by States, Volume III, page 216. 212 The Metropolitan Opera mined to profit fully from any performance that might be given by electing the first public showing on January 22 as his annual benefit. This materialistic attitude toward so important an event as the first performance of a Strauss opera in America might have passed unnoticed had not Conried selected the preceding Sun- day, January 20, for the dress rehearsal. Moreover, he threw the theater open to more than one thousand persons, many of them just come from church. The spectacle of Fremstad as Salome fondling the severed head of John the Baptist naturally offended more in these circumstances than it would have otherwise. Actu- ally it is hard to determine, from the published reports, whether the objections of Mrs. Herbert Satterlee (J. P. Morgan’s daugh- ter) were to the first performance or to the dress rehearsal. In his resume on January 22, Henderson wrote in the Sun: “Miss Fremstad . . . coddled the severed head a good deal more [in the rehearsal] than she did on Tuesday. . . . On Tuesday she moderated her transports so that even little girls . . . were not shocked. As for the society women, they viewed the spectacle with perfect calmness.” He commended the “perfect adapta- tion of the musical expression to the scene,” declared that Frem- stad’s performance put her “in the front rank of great dramatic singers,” and ranked Burgstaller’s Herod* with Van Dyck’s Loge as a character study. Finally, he felt, if “this sort of degeneracy is to become popular,” it should depend “entirely on the theater goer.” The picture presented by Walter Prichard Eaton (then a twenty-five-year-old reporter) for the Tribune’s readers was quite different: “Many voices were hushed as the crowd passed out into the night, many faces were white . . . many women were si- lent and men spoke as if a bad dream were upon them.” Krehbiel thought the reviewer should be “an embodied conscience stung into righteous fury by the moral stench with which Salome fills the nostrils of mankind.” Nevertheless, he directed attention to three “supremely beautiful musical moments” in Salome: the brooding at the cistern, the Dance of the Seven Veils, and the finale. Aldrich, in the Times, labeled the subject abhorrent, but gave lavish praise to the production and the conducting of Hertz. As is well known, the dance was performed, not by Fremstad, Operas and Artists, 1906-1907 213 but by the company’s ballerina, Bianca Froelich. According to Henderson, “She spared the audience nothing in . . . active and suggestive detail.” In other reports, the early departure of some of the public was interrupted as a gesture of antagonism. The opera, however, in Conried’s beneficent manner, had been preceded by a long, mis- cellaneous concert. Thus Salome did not begin until nearly ten, and the homeward trend did not begin any earlier than it does for some members of the audience at any performance in the ] theater. As Edward Ziegler, then writing for the Theater Maga- zine, remarked: “The silly concert and the long intermission had wearied most of the listeners.” J Whatever the combined public reaction, the influential pri- vate opinion decreed that Salome was “objectionable, and detri- mental to the best interests of the Metropolitan Opera House.” This was the phraseology of a resolution by the board of direc- tors of the Metropolitan Opera and Real Estate Company ad- dressed to Conried on January 27. According to the press, “the 'j objections started in the family of one of the most influential and powerful of the box-holders.” This was the Tribune’s way of characterizing the Morgan position at the Metropolitan. 7 Conried petitioned first to have the work restricted to non- subscription performances, and was denied this salvation. Then, he threatened to present it in another theater, a course his own directors deemed unwise. Finally, after a meeting with a repre- f sentative group from the Opera and Real Estate Company, Sa- > | lome was dropped from the repertory. Much of the talk in the press recounted the expense incurred in producing Salome, the ^ commitments to the composer for several years’ performing rights. Morgan personally offered to reimburse Conried and his : * group, but they declined with thanks. They preferred the record to read that the forbidden Salome had been at their expense. One critical vacillation in the valuation of Salome may be mentioned as indicative of the influence that the heat of the moment may exert on a usually unbending mind. Henderson’s ; a original reaction has been indicated on page 212. On February 2 j §j he described Salome as “operatic offal” and declared the prohi- $ bition of it had “removed a stench from the nostrils. Mr. J Strauss,” he continued, “stands convicted . of having found 214 The Metropolitan Opera his inspiration in a low subject.” In a later review of the season Salome had sunk to the level of “a deadly bore.” The vexing problem of morality was not present when Puc- cini’s Manon Lescaut had its first Metropolitan hearing on January 18, but it was latent in Madama Butterfly, introduced on February 11. Both were given in the presence of Puccini, and he was warmly applauded whenever he showed himself. With Caruso in Lescaut were Cavalieri (Manon* ), Scotti (Lescaut*), and Rossi (Geronte*), a cast that reads better than it sounded, for Cavalieri was not suited to Manon, and Rossi was weak. Butterfly, with Farrar (Butterfly*), Caruso (Pinkerton*), Scotti (Sharpless*), and Homer (Suzuki*), was decidedly better, though Krehbiel’s objection to the “carnality” of the story was not wholly offset by “Love conjugal and love maternal” (the Tribune). At its previous showing in the Garden Theater, Al- drich had thought the appearance of Kate Pinkerton in the last act would be “atrocious taste” in reality. Musically, the virus of Puccini was working its wiles. Henderson referred approvingly to the “exquisite instrumentation” of the score and the “ravish- ing” beauty of the climax to Act II, and Krehbiel concurred with references to “haunting tenderness and poetic loveliness” in the score. The upward surge of Puccini in the Metropolitan repertory was reflected in a total of twenty-one performances of his works this season, second only to Wagner with twenty-four. Few of the latter were worthy of more than passing notice, for the effort expended on Salome had virtually frozen the services of several important principals. Fremstad, for example, was due to sing her first Isolde in this season, but bypassed it in favor of Salome. Consequently, Gadski was the Isolde* on February 15, with hardly the command of the part which was later to be hers. In addition, Hertz was in a mood to drive the orchestra with un- toward consequences for the vocalists (Burrian as Tristan,* Homer, Van Rooy, and Blass). Gadski’s first act was admired, her second less so. When she sang again on March 6, the Bran- gane was Schumann-Heink, not heard since 1902-3. She also took part in a Ring cycle beginning on March 19, and sang the Witch* in Hansel und Gretel on March 22. The last of these shared an evening with Pagliacci, in which Operas and Artists, 1906-1907 215 Farrar sang Nedda* delightfully, and Caruso made his experi- ment with public perceptions by singing the off-stage serenade of Beppe in Act II. The famed tenor being invisible, there was no more applause than if it had been sung by Reiss, whose name was on the program for the part. There was in fact, no ap- plause at all. A final credit for Farrar in her first season was an Elisabeth* in Tannhduser on February 6, in which the Sun com- mended the “breadth and certainty” of her performance and paid tribute to the “benefit of Lilli Lehmann’s coaching.” For the while, Caruso interrupted his pursuit of French style (he did not sing either Faust or Jos6 this season), but he added to Des Grieux ( Manon Lescaut ), Pinlcerton, Loris in Fedora— and Beppe— the role of Da Gama* when L’A fricaine was given on January 11. Plangon (Grand Inquisitor) and Journet (Don Pedro) were the remnants of the last revival in 1901, whose qual- ities were well matched by the superior vocalizing of Caruso. Fremstad, however, was uncomfortable in the music of Selika*; Stracciari as Nelusko* and Rappold as Inez* were below the ap- proved standard. Most at fault was the ill-balanced ensemble, crudely conducted by Vigna. This conductor’s qualities had sufficed in his first seasons, when he seemed an improvement over his immediate predeces- sors. The problems of such “new” scores as Tosca and Butterfly, however, and the advent of Campanini at the Manhattan had showed his limitations. That much can be reconstructed from the Gatti memoirs, which relate an offer from Conried to Tos- canini late in 1906. On March 17, 1907 a rumor of this offer was discussed in the Sun, with the comment: “His conducting of Tristan und Isolde is said to be a dream. . . . He is almost equally great in Die Meistersinger. Unless he is to conduct such works he will not come.” For this year no further progress was made— publicly. But a good deal was going on out of view. Conried was advised by the directors of the Opera and Real Estate Company that “under no circumstances would the theater again be conducted as it had been last winter when for days at a time Mr. Conried was too sick to transact any business” (the Sun, August 1, 1907). In July, Conried had met Gustav Mahler in Berlin and concluded negotiations begun some time before for him to come to New 21 6 The Metropolitan Opera York. But even then Conried’s tenure was drawing to an end. In the same month Gatti-Casazza met Otto Kahn in Paris— after preliminary soundings had been carried on through interne- diaries— and accepted, in principle, Conned s position, should Conried be forced to retire by illness. He also made it clear that Toscanini would come with him willingly (as Gatti-Casazza relates it in Memories of the Opera) . As he would not come without Gatti, the relation of one to the other is clear. Upon Kahn’s return to America, he was queried by the press about the progress of the rumored changes, but would riot dis- cuss them. The Sun then printed the status of Conried’s posi- tion (see page 215), adding its catalogue of possible successors: Jean de Reszke (not desirable because he might fill the house with his pupils), Andre Mcssager (late head of Covent Garden, and probably too French), Anton Fuchs (the admired producer of Die Meistersinger for Conried, and probably too German), Tito Ricordi (with his bagful of Puccini scores), and Andreas Dippel. In an editorial of the next day, the same paper— doubt- less acting on information that Dippel was well favored by an ownership faction-urged his case, declaring he was the one man who could “protect the cosmopolitanism that Maurice Gran had given to the Metropolitan.” His experience in opera on both sides of the Atlantic was praised, as was his standing as “a man of widest artistic sympathies as well as a keen business man.” Little as the Sun knew of Gatti, so little did Oat ti know of Dippel. They met in not the best of circumstances. By then an- other new element in the situation was Gustav Mahler. I lis con- tract extended beyond Conried’s final year, and Kahn considered it appropriate to protect Mahler’s standing as an aitist before a crisis should arise. Hence, when he made a formal offer to Gatti and Toscanini in January 1908, he asked assurance, by cable, that the latter would not find this situation difficult. Gatti quotes (Memories of the Opera, page 148) Toscanini as answering: “But of course I will have no difficulty at all. There is room at the Metropolitan for several conductors and I am very happy to find myself with an artist of Mahler’s worth. I hold Mahler in great esteem and would infinitely prefer such a colleague to any mediocrity.” Mahler found himself not so “happy” and eventually out of Operas and Artists , 1907-1908 217 the Metropolitan. It was an instance of an irresistible force meet- ing a not quite immovable object. Dippel came, saw, and did not conquer. 1907-1908 The most active season of operatic production New York had yet known began on November 4, 1907 and continued for six months. It opened at the Manhattan Opera House with La Gio- conda and finished 237 performances later with Guttcrdammer- ung at the Metropolitan. Activity was virtually equal in the two places, the Metropolitan offering seven more performances than Hammerstein’s total of 115. It was the year for New Yorkers to become acquainted with Feodor Chaliapin, Mary Garden, Jean Perier, and Gustav Mah- ler, but it began with the reappearance of an old favorite, Lillian Nordica, in the Manhattan Gioconda. This was Hammersteiu’s first reply to the lavish expenditure by which Conricd hoped to attract his rival's principal singers to the Metropolitan. lie had succeeded with Bond, morally if not legally committed to Ilam- mersteiu. Rather than waste time on legalities, Hammerstein simply produced new and better singers than Conricd seemed to know existed, f or this first Gioconda, for example, Hammer- stein imported the brilliant young tenor Giovanni Zenatello to sing F.nzo, found Ariamo Didur for Alvise, borrowed Jeanne Gerville Rcache from Paris to be La Caeca, and combined them with Nordica, Ancona, anti I)e Cisneros to provide Gampanini with what the Sun temperately described as “on the whole, a competent cast.” The same report declared: “Mr. Hammerstein is still engaged in iiis cheerful pastime of showing that . . . per- sons who say there ate no more good singers in Europe are eva- sive, Machiavellian and empiric.” Mindful of his previous season's success with Carmen, espe- cially with the pleasure provided by the excellent ensemble, Hammerstein inclined ever more strongly to the French works and singers with which his name is durably linked. Carmen on the second night brought Armand Grabbd as F.scamillo with Bressler Gianoli and Palmores, followed by deliberate compari- son with the Metropolitan's t,a Damnation de Faust on No- vember 6. The sophisticated ear rejoiced in the apt direction of 2i 8 The Metropolitan Opera "the continuous conductor,” as Henderson termed Campanini, and the striking Mephistopheles of Renaud— a "brooding, world weary devil who goes about his business with all the infinite pathos of despairing satiety.” Dalmores and Jomelli were also ex- cellent, but a prime attraction for the public was the elaborate “aerial ballet.” It was larger in numbers and less clothed than Conried’s, thus proving conclusively Hammerstein’s superior un- derstanding of Berlioz. Unlikely as it seems for a work twenty-six years old, Offen- bach's Les Contes d’Hoffmann was virtually unknown in New York when it was given at the Manhattan on November 15. 1 It was thus a new, delightful experience, especially as sung by a cast rarely surpassed since, with Dalmor&s (Hoffmann), Renaud a perfect embodiment of the three spirits of evil (Dr. Coppelius, Dappertutto, and Miracle), Zepilli (Olympia), Jomelli (Giu- lietta), and a Mme Francisca (Antonia). De Cisneros, as tends to be the case with altos, was rather stalwart for Nicklausse. The Sun described the score as “extremely good in its kind and its kind is one that most people are wise enough to enjoy.” Prophecy of success was supported by ten repetitions this season and a warm welcome whenever it has been produced since. The Metropolitan had double competition when its turn came to open on November 18. For a novelty, the season began with a novelty, Cilea’s A drianna Lecouvreur , in which Caruso sang Maurizio* as he had at the Scala premiere in 1902. Hammer- stein countered with Hoffmann, and the Horse Show was incon- siderate enough to open the same evening. Society took some of Adrianna and then proceeded to the Madison Square Garden for the equestrian display, a decision not difficult in the face of what Henderson termed a “commonplace, trite, and wearisome” score. Caruso had his usual success with “L’anima ho stance,” and Scotti was a first-class Michonnet.* Cavalieri, “good to see, bad to hear,” in the judgment of the Sun, left more than a little wanting in her performance, and the conducting of Ru- dolph Ferrari was not much above the level of Vigna, who had succumbed to the Campanini competition. Caruso also lent his art to the cause of Mascagni’s Iris when 1 An opera-bouffe company operated by the young Maurice Grau had given it, briefly, during 1881. Operas and Artists, 1907-1908 219 it was given in the Metropolitan on December 6, with Ferrari conducting. This was not the first hearing of the score in the house, for Mascagni himself had conducted it as a private ven- ture on October 16, 1902, prior to G rau’s last season. It was then rated by Henderson as “a real opera” with “spectacular effects” and orchestrated with “wondrous tonal tints.” On second hear- ing it still commanded the same writer's respect for its “riotous energy,” though he found it short of the “directness and com- pressed interpretative power” of Cavalleria. Fames as Iris,* Scotti as Kyoto,* and Journct as the Father* gave performances of quality. A betweeu-liucs reading suggests that Puccini and Butterfly had absorbed as much interest as New Yorkers could muster for an opera with a Japanese locale. Conried's most aggressive tactic to combat Hammcrstein was the presentation of Caruso fifty-one times and Bond twenty-five times. As they shared only one role (Rodolfo in Bah&me), it was one tenor or the other in virtually all the non-Wagnerian repertory-- 76 performances out of 122. When they were inac- tive, it was likely to be an occasion when Feodor Chaliapin left little room on the stage for competitive personalities in any ease. His debut, in Mefistufele on November 20, roused admiration in the Sun for “sustained power, consistency and coherence” in his acting and for an “exceptional" vocal technique. By contrast with Reminds devil, however, Chaliapin’s descended to actions Krehbiel called “disgusting frankness” and Henderson rated as “cheap claptrap." On Aldrich of the Times Chaliapin made "a deep impression . if not always a wholly agreeable one.” Farrar sang Marguerite* with charm, and Rappold (Helen*) and Jacoby (Pantalis* ) divided the parts previously sung by one soprano. A new tenor of quality was the Kentucky -horn Ric cardo Marlin (dS, singing Faust* with “a true tenor of pretty quality” ( Henderson ) and evident lack of background. Although Chaliapin left America with bitter complaints of a press cabal and a determination never to return (it was a dozen years before he relented j, if is more likely that the unified re- ad ion was merely against his naturalistic acting, a rude shock to a generation reared on the refinement of the De Reszkes, Pkmrnn, the elegant Maine!, and Scotti. When he sang Basilio* m tl Barhkre on December 12. his “mugging” (the Sim’s word) 220 The Metropolitan Opera did not please, nor did his nose-blowing through the fingers. “Acceptable” was all that could be said of his singing. As the Gounod Mephistopheles * in Faust on January 6, the Sun found him “hoarse . . . raucous in tone . . . rude . . . boisterous . . . without respect for the manner of the composer.” Of his post-debut roles, Leporello in Don Giovanni roused not acclaim, but perhaps the least objection (see page 224) . Some apprehensions attended Bonci’s debut as the Duke* in Rigoletto on November 22, for it was assumed he would be hard to hear in a theater as large as the Metropolitan. Henderson’s comment on this point is instructive: “The art of the singer who knows how to focus his voice and how to sustain it with a steady column of air made every note float through all the spaces of the house.” Exquisite diction and the perfect use of vowels and consonants in an unbroken legato made his second-act duet with Sembrich “one of the most perfectly balanced pieces of sing- ing” in Metropolitan history. Ferrari, it was noted, was happier in this old-fashioned music than in the “newer” Cilea and Boito scores. Rodolfo, Lionello in Marta, Almaviva in II Barbiere, and Ottavio in Don Giovanni were other roles sung with distinction by Bonci in this season. An era of operatic experience in America may be dated from November 25 when, after several postponements, Mary Garden made her debut at the Manhattan in Thais. For the New York press to acknowledge that so famous a performer was “in almost every way worthy of her reputation,” as the Sun did, is a meas- urement of accomplishment rarely equaled. “Captivating” in appearance rather than merely beautiful, “alive with magnetic temperament,” Garden failed in only a single respect. “What- ever Miss Garden might have been in the sweet summertime long ago,” wrote Henderson, “she cannot now be called a singer. . . . There may have been a voice once, but it and that method could not long dwell together.” Renaud’s masterly Athanael, Dalmores’s picturesque Nicias, and Campanini’s con- ducting made the most of what the Sun called “a good market place opera.” Within a few weeks Garden had given New Yorkers a con- cept of what was meant by the new term “singing actress,” with her Louise on January 3 and her Melisande on February 20. 221 Operas and Artists, 1907-1908 Campanini, as musical director, had imported virtually com- plete casts of key performers for Louise and Pelldas, with the re- sult that a theatrical integration hardly known to New York opera in the past was achieved after relatively short rehearsal periods. Garden’s touchingly acted Louise was but one element in a beautifully balanced cast that included Dalmores (Julien), Bressler-Gianoli (the Mother), and, above all, Charles Gilibert as the Father— “a compendium of blighted love, blasted hope, human agony,” wrote Henderson. By now Puccini had become a paragon, and Charpentier’s melodic flow was compared, dis- advantageously (by the same writer) , with the Italian’s. But there was keen appreciation of the “excellent tone painting” in the score and warm endorsement for the “masterly . . . convinc- ing” last scene. Apparently Krehbiel’s cries of “immorality,” “vulgarity,” “licentiousness,” aroused less— or more— attention in opera-going quarters than he imagined. Louise was given ten times in all, with few empty seats. The advent of Pelleas et Melisande stimulated Aldrich, in the Times, to a critical evaluation that recalls the columns claimed by Tristan and Falstaff when they were new, but his older col- leagues Henderson and Krehbiel were measurably less sympa- thetic. It was well known that Campanini had let the cast teach him the score rather than vice versa, but it was Aldrich’s judg- ment that “only a musician of the highest powers” could have contributed as much as Campanini did to the success of the work. With Garden, who rose “to a height of tragic power” (Aldrich), were Perier (Pelldas), Gerville-Rdache (Genevieve), and Dufranne (Golaud), all participants in the world premiere of 1902. The last of these, in Henderson’s estimation, was “one of the greatest artists who ever came here from France,” but he found the first two acts of the score “deadly dull, monotonous, wearisome.” Krehbiel’s objection was directed to “combinations of tones that sting and blister and . . . outrage the ear.” In non-journalistic circles, in the monthly reviews and periodicals, Pelleas easily ranked as the most consequential of Hammerstein’s innovations. He was easily forgiven the limited interest of Gior- dano’s Siberia, which came and went with little attention after its first showing on February 5, with Zenatello (Vassili) and Sammarco (Gleby). 222 The Metropolitan Opera The shrewdness that had carried Hammerstein from small theatrical ventures to somewhat larger ones and finally to single- handed competition with the richest enterprise in the United States had a typical illustration in the introduction of Luisa Tetrazzini. Although Conried protested that she was hound, in some way, to him, by the negotiations previously mentioned (see page 204), Hammerstein proceeded with plans to present her in the fall of 1908. Convinced by reports of her London success in November 1907 that she was ready for New York— and acting, no doubt, under the urging of Campanini, who was married to her sister, Eva— Hammerstein decided to exercise his option at once, and announced her New York debut for January 15, 1909 1 in La Traviata. As the history of opera proves, from Lind to Pons, and from Patti to Galli-Curci, there is a kind of aural appetite for which nothing satisfies so keenly as the highest notes and the swiftest scales. In Tetrazzini, the New York public had its first fresh serving of the sort since Melba was new, and the response dazed even the well-versed press. “It is useless to discuss the phenome- non,” wrote Krehbiel. “The whims of the populace are as un- questioning . as the fury of the elements.” Henderson began with some disparagement of the audience reaction, but soon sur- rendered to the appeal of “a clear fresh voice of pure soprano quality,” in “perfectly unworn condition,” with a “splendid richness in the upper range.” The “lower medium,” he contin- ued, was marred by a pallid color and a tremolo so pronounced that it sounded like “the wailing of a cross infant,” but she took rank as a “remarkable technician,” if not quite capable of “su- preme vocal art.” Bassi (Alfredo) and Ancona (Germont) were also present. In all, Tetrazzini appeared twenty-two times this season, fre- quently in Lucia with Zenatello and Sammarco, in Rigoletto with Bassi and Renaud, occasionally in Crispino e la Comare, once in Dinorah. Henderson’s blow-by-blow account of a ca- denza following “Spargo d’amaro” in Lucia is typical of the kind of thing her listeners doted on: “There were leaps, runs, staccati, 1 Her American debut occurred in San Francisco two years before, when a company with which she was appearing in Mexico City ventured north for a short tour. Operas and Artists, 1907-1908 223 double swells from piano to forte, twice repeated, and a finish on the high E flat.” All this led to loud cries for the repetitions usu- ally denied by Campanini, though the same critic found it want- ing in “abandon, daring, dash.” When Campanini relented to allow a second hearing of “Caro nome” on January 29, the pub- lic felt well treated indeed by Hammerstein. Considering the va- riety and excellence of the diversions Hammerstein offered his public, it is not unbelievable that he actually made the quarter of a million dollars quoted to me by Arthur Hammerstein as the season’s profit. Nor is it hard to understand why Conried sought out a vocal phenomenon named Ellen Beach Yaw to give his public a Tetrazzini-like show in Lucia on March 21. Yaw was a concert artist who drew audiences to hear her sing C above “high” C, but she went no higher than G (in alt) during “Quando rapito,” and was not asked back. The march of events at the Manhattan, reflected in attain- ments both artistic and commercial, clearly left the directors of the Conried Metropolitan Opera Company in an uncomfortable position. With the director a sick man and the end of his five- year contract almost at hand, the simplest solution was to sepa- rate “Conried” from “Metropolitan Opera Company” and start afresh under new auspices. Negotiations to this end were under way even before Tetrazzini’s debut on January 15. The last of Conried’s endeavors to make his company worthy of its surroundings was one that earned him enduring credit when Gustav Mahler conducted for the first time on January 1, 1908. Convinced that opportunities for the kind of work he wanted to do no longer existed in Vienna, this troubled yet po- tent spirit came to New York with anticipation if not with eager- ness, and, for a while at least, found conditions much to his lik- ing. For his introductory Tristan he had ample rehearsal time, a fresh-voiced Isolde,* and one eager to follow his guidance, in Fremstad, who had not sung the part previously. With Knote an excellent Tristan, Mahler achieved a performance “filled with vitality and voicing a conception of high beauty” (the Sun). In the line of what was written about her when her conception was fully matured, Fremstad’s Isolde was already “a deeply stud- ied and poetically conceived characterization . . . beautiful in its tenderness and melting passion . . . not a raging Isolde but 224 The Metropolitan Opera a woman smothering a yearning love” (Henderson). As might have been surmised from her mezzo beginnings, a few top tones were a little inhibited, but on the whole the music was gloriously sung. Along with other superior performances of Wagner, Mahler found time to acquaint New York with the revaluations of Don Giovanni and Fidelio for which his years in Vienna will be ever remembered. On January 23 Don Giovanni became what it had almost never been at the Metropolitan: a completely integrated unit, in which all concerned, as Henderson observed, contrib- uted to making the score move “swiftly, steadily, even relent- lessly toward its great climax.” Mahler’s superbly flexible hand on the orchestra molded it into a rich fabric with the voices of Bonci (Ottavio*), Scotti (Don Giovanni), Chaliapin (Lepo- rello*), Eames (Donna Anna*), Gadski (Elvira), and Sembrich (Zerlina). On a later occasion Farrar sang Zerlina* with “per- sonal charm and piquancy,” and Chaliapin’s broad playing was held within tolerable bounds. According to Henderson, “he sang ‘ Madamina ,’ at any rate, with humor.” It was twenty years be- fore the Metropolitan gave Don Giovanni again. Fidelio came on March 20, not only with the classic innova- tion of the “Leonore” Overture No. 3 after the dungeon scene, but also with a replica of the massive Roller sets that Mahler had commissioned for his Vienna revival of 1904. Although New Yorkers had more than a fair familiarity with Fidelio as a result of the German seasons, success, for the first time, was measured by more than how well a soprano sang Leonore. Berta Morena certainly was inferior to Lehmann and Materna, but with staunch performers such as Burrian, Goritz (Pizarro*), and Van Rooy (Minister of Justice*), the action blended smoothly from one scene to another, and the “breathless intensity” of Mahler’s con- ducting made for an experience the Sun termed “altogether ab- sorbing.” Mahler also had a share in the season’s Ring cycle, producing on February 7 a Walkiire that was notable especially for the “tor- rent of glorious, vivifying tone” the orchestra produced in Act II, and on February 19 a Siegfried that impressed the same com- mentator (Henderson) as “more scholarly than passionate.” Fremstad was the Briinnhilde in the latter, Gadski in the former. Operas and Artists, 1907-1908 225 The casts adhered to arrangements familiar during the recent Conried seasons— Burgstaller, Van Rooy, Kirkby-Lunn as Fricka, and so on. Hertz had charge of Rheingold and Gotterddm- merung in a post-season cycle beginning on April 1 3, and also conducted Lohengrin, Die Meistersinger, and a rather poor re- vival of Der fliegende Hollander. Conried’s staging of the last named was praised more than the singing of Gadski, Knote, Van Rooy, and Dippel (the Steersman). Among matters of more import, Farrar won praise for her Violetta* in La Traviata on February 28, 1908, an occasion she recalled in conversation nearly forty years later. Speaking of Con- ried, she said: “He could be so distant and yet so kind. I remem- ber when he said to me: 'I have a present for your birthday. How would you like to sing Violetta?’ ” February 28 did, in fact, mark the popular soprano’s twenty-sixth birthday. She won praise not only for her “willowy physique,” but also for the “communica- tive warmth” of her singing (the Sun ) . This production, in mod- ern dress, also presented Stracciari and Caruso. The latter, inci- dentally, overcame his objections to Manrico* in this season, singing in a Trovatore of February 26 with Eames (Leonora*), Homer, and Stracciari. He gave particular attention to the lyric music of the role, and did not disdain transposition in “Di quelld pira,” whose top tone was B. Alma Mahler’s reminiscence of her husband’s career, Gustav Mahler, Memories and Letters (New York: Viking Press; 1946), shows rather clearly that as late as the end of December 1907 Conried fully expected to continue as Metropolitan director. She described their visit to the impresario at his home shortly after arrival in America, where he received them “on a divan in the middle of the room with a baldachino and convoluted pillars.” His assurance that he was going to “make” Mahler rather amused both visitors. Rawlins Cottenet, of his own board of directors, however, was en route to negotiate a contract with Gatti and Toscanini in January 1908. Alma Mahler states: “It is fair to say that Mahler was offered the post but declined it,” though contemporary ac- counts indicate, if anything, a possible joint arrangement with Dippel as administrator and Mahler as musical director. This was unacceptable because both were considered Teutonic in 226 The Metropolitan Opera background. Dippel’s status was revealed in the press of Feb- ruary 15. He was described as “administrative manager,” with Gatti-Casazza as “general manager.” Rightful objections to the “ambiguity” of these terms was entered, the whole arrangement suggesting that Dippel was imposed upon by Kahn and his as- sociates by a faction that thought Conried should be allowed to name his successor. Gatti did not become acquainted with either his associate or the fact that he had an associate until his ar- rival in New York in May to examine at first hand the problems with which he was confronted. While the affairs of the Conried Metropolitan Opera Com- pany were being resolved, one privilege remained for Conried. That was the annual manager's benefit, which occurred this year on March 24. The repertory lacking an expensive novelty for which satisfying rates could be charged, he ordered, instead, a gala concert, in which Mahler conducted the “Leonore” Over- ture No. 3 and virtually the whole company appeared in ex- cerpts from LaBoMme, Butterfly, II Trovatore, Faust , and Die Meistersinger. Van Rooy, Reiss, Goritz, and Blass, who took part in an abbreviated version of Act III of the Wagner work, may be said to have put themselves out considerably for Con- ried. They went to Philadelphia on a 9.25 train that morning, sang a performance of Siegfried with Fremstad beginning shortly before noon, and caught a five-o’clock train back to New York for the benefit. The receipts amounted to $19,119; there were tiers of flowers for the retiring director; and the affectionate di- rectors of the Conried Metropolitan Opera Company presented him with a silver cup eighteen inches high. EPILOGUE A cold impartial judgment would inevitably come to the con- clusion that there should never have been a man named Hein- rich Conried in the Metropolitan’s succession of policy-makers and influence-shapers. Too little qualified with special skills, too greatly disqualified by special inabilities, he stands forth between the self-justifying Maurice Grau and the obviously professional Giulio Gatti-Casazza as an intermediate experiment, a man who was not quite either. The essential error of judgment was not his, of course, but Operas and Artists, 1907—1908 227 that of lessors and lessees who, between them, shared the opin- ion that money could be made from opera less exclusively vocal than Grau’s. It is not only conceivable but demonstrable, in cer- tain years of the Gatti direction, that opera could be given with- out loss; but not in a framework of profit-sharing, dividends on stock, managerial benefits, and the like. Profit, in short, could be the result when the economic setting was favorable; but it could not be the motive. To Conried’s credit is the initiation of the systematic broad- ening of the repertory which produced the widely varied season to come. Parsifal , Salome, Madama Butterfly, Hansel und Gretel, Le Damnation de Faust may seem all too obvious additions to the repertory. But if Conried is to be scorned for ignoring Louise, Thais, Pelleas, Les Contes d’Hoffmann, and Elektra, he should be commended for the risks he ventured. Die Fledermaus and Der Zigeunerbaron would have been remembered more hap- pily in other circumstances than the ones that governed their production. One sound way in which Conried affected the continuing his- tory of the Metropolitan was in the replenishment of the basic company by such notable additions as Farrar, Fremstad, Mahler, Burrian, Burgstaller, and Journet. Caruso, Sembrich, Eames, and Scotti he owed to Grau, but several of them served Gatti well. Had either New York or Chaliapin been more flexible, Chalia- pin's career might have been longer associated with Conried. It was to Conried’s credit, certainly, that he sponsored the engage- ment, even if the wedding was short-lived. Even to those unborn at the time, there is something unsavory and ill-judged about the double-price Parsifal benefit, the ex- ploited (for profit) Salome, the benefit-concert Fledermaus. It reveals a perilously materialistic evaluation of opportunity for a man who was receiving a salary of $20,000 when such a wage was formidable. As a practical theater man, Conried instituted some proce- dures both desirable and long delayed, and the general tone of comment honors this influence. They were not sufficiently ac- companied by musical awareness to yield the benefits they might have brought. The directors knew better what they wanted when they chose his successor. 228 The Metropolitan Opera INCOME, PROFIT, AND LOSS OF CONRIED METROPOLITAN OPERA COMPANY Year Income Profit Loss 1903 $1,107,000 $ 60,000 1904 $1,285,000 $126,326 1905 $1,209,000 $111,018 1906 $1,312,000 $84,039 1 1907 $1,340,173 $95,806 1 The decline in income for 1905 was owing in part to the abbrevi- ated tour as a result of the San Francisco earthquake. The next year’s loss is in part attributable to the cost of replacing nineteen productions de- stroyed in the earthquake, and in part to the Salome investment. THE METROPOLITAN OPERA COMPANY The Years of Toscanini, 1908-15 The very real apprehensions with which some supporters of Metropolitan opera viewed the arrival of Gatti-Casazza and Tos- canini must seem absurd today. But there were at least two factors to create uneasiness. One was the outspoken antagonism to Wagner of a substantial element in the ownership group. The other was the national background of the two men, and the affinity of Gatti with the house of Ricordi. I would not say that Gatti abused his position in producing a list of hopeless works by Zandonai, Laparra, Catalani, Riccitelli, Leoni, and others, but it could be said that he had monumental patience with failure after failure while Mozart languished and Beethoven was for- gotten. Toscanini, of course, needed no more than an orchestra, a cast, and an opera to establish his place as a factor in Metropoli- tan history. It was by no means a unanimous accolade he won in the works of all schools, but his aims were so consistently high that differences of opinion could only be with details. Gatti, who was accepted rather more grudgingly, eventually rose to a posi- tion of pre-eminence among Metropolitan directors. The confusion and cross-purposes that confronted Gatti with a hitherto unknown “collaborator” upon his arrival in New York in May 1908 had more than administrative ramifications. Refer- ences to the terms on which “Toscanini would come” (see page Operas and Artists, 1908-1909 229 215) were supported by his expectations when he did come. In correspondence with Mahler before the season of 1908 began, Dippel spoke of Toscanini’s desire to do Tristan with a new pro- duction from Milan. Mahler reacted to this with the utmost vigor: it was “inconceivable” to him that a new Tristan should be planned without his knowledge, and he refused his consent (Gustav Mahler, Memories and Letters, page 255). For this year Mahler prevailed; but when Tristan was first given in the 1909 season, Toscanini conducted. I have been informed that Tosca- nini has denounced Alma Mahler Werfel’s recollection of events of this period as false and malicious, but the evidence is quite clear that conflicting promises were made in the name of the divided authority. Furthermore, the circumstances of the transition made for difficulties. Many of the stars were retained on contracts negoti- ated with Conried, in which promises of preferential possession of certain roles were implied if not stated. It is not improbable that the singers looked to Dippel to protect their interests, and when his tenure was threatened, they became alarmed (see page 232). Both Eames and Sembrich retired from the Metropolitan after Gatti’s first season, though neither was even approaching retirement from singing. On the other hand, the reorganization of the company to carry out the Gatti-Dippel plans— and, if possible, put Hammer- stein’s competition completely to shame— was far more ambi- tious than anything previously contemplated. Separate choruses, of one hundred voices each, were organized for the Italian- French and the German repertory. Giulio Setti, from La Scala, was engaged to direct the first, Hans Steiner of Munich was brought over to train the second. A pool of one hundred and thirty-five orchestra musicians was maintained, not only to re- lieve the “overworked” personnel of the Metropolitan itself, but to accommodate an expanded activity in the new Brooklyn Academy of Music and in Philadelphia. The paper planning also extended to revision of operations in the Metropolitan, with eight of the twenty Saturday nights set aside for “revivals of classical works by such composers as Mo- zart, Beethoven and Wagner.” The previously unused Tuesday was also to be incorporated into this scheme. Although Conried 230 The Metropolitan Opera had restaged nineteen productions after the San Francisco earth- quake, a completely new scenic program was launched, to be ex- ecuted in Italy. To facilitate rehearsals, Gatti recommended the construction of a roof stage (see page 2x5). All this was to be done with no thought of profit-sharing by the salaried employees or the directors of the Metropolitan Opera Company. It was to be done, moreover, with no change in the price scale of five dollars for orchestra seats established by Grau and perpetuated by Conried (save for well-remembered deviations). In descending order, dress-circle seats were three dollars, balcony seats two dollars and a half and two dollars, family-circle seats one dollar and a half and one dollar. Grand- tier boxes were rented for all the performances of the season for six thousand dollars, for one performance a week for twelve hun- dred dollars, or sold for a single performance for sixty dollars. These prices remained without change through the 1911-12 season. 1908-1909 1907 was a panic year and 1908 a period of “hard times,” but the evidence is hard to trace in the operatic activity offered to New Yorkers and supported by them. Hammerstein had no contrac- tual or administrative problems to deal with in his venture. In- deed, the change at the Metropolitan had been to his advantage, for Conried’s retirement freed the Puccini works that he had re- served under a personal contract, and the “West Side house” (as it was often described) could offer its customers a Tosca con- ducted by Campanini for its opening on November 9. Zena- tello (Cavaradossi) andRenaud (Scarpia) were both performers of tested worth who gave their new roles fresh color and accent, and if Maria Labia was not the best Tosca New York had heard, she was a vigorous actress. Special attention was directed to the audience, by far the most representative Hammerstein had at- tracted. Winthrop Ames, Bourke Cochran, and Miss Beatrice Mills came with the Clarence Mackays, and the society reporters noted Justice and Mrs. James W. Gerard, George F. Baker, Jr., Lady Northcliffe, Mrs. Cadwalader Jones, and August Belmont in the audience. Operas and Artists , 1908-1909 231 Within the week Hammerstein offered Garden in Thais, Ger- ville-Reache in a more imaginative staging of Samson et Dalila than the Metropolitan had ever known (with Dalmores and Dufranne, on November 11), and Tetrazzini's first Rosina in II Barbiere, with Sammarco, Gilibert (Bartolo), and Andres de Segurola as Basilio. (Segurola’s brief appearance with the Grau company in the last days of the 1901-2 season had apparently been forgotten, for he was treated as a new, welcome artist.) Tetrazzini did not decorate the airs as lavishly as Patti, but she earned a right to the coveted comparison, especially in her light playing of the comedy episodes with Gilibert. Gatti’s first venture was the traditional Faust, not in the home house, but in the Brooklyn Academy of Music, on Saturday eve- ning, November 14. By the measurement of the Metropolitan, this new theater was “intimate,” the pleasure in the singing of Caruso and Farrar enhanced. A Hammerstein discovery, Adamo Didur, was now under Metropolitan contract and admired as Mephistopheles. The conductor was Francesco Spetrino. De- spite the suggestions of his name, he came from Vienna, with Mahler’s endorsement. Minus an Astor for the first time in history (see page 75), the Metropolitan opening on November 16 made the happiest kind of musical news— for Toscanini’s conducting of Aida, of a scope not known to New York before, for Emmy Destinn’s “great power, body and vibrant quality” (the Times ) as Aida,* and for the prodigal fervor of Caruso’s Rhadames. Aldrich thought the Egyptology of the production from Milan more splendid than consistent with “accepted ideas” of that landscape, and Hender- son preferred his Rhadames unbearded, but there was whole- some accord on one point: Toscanini. Aldrich termed him “a strenuous force, a dominating power, a man of potent author- ity”; Krehbiel proclaimed him “in the best sense, an artist, an interpreter, a recreator”; and Henderson added to an optimistic forecast of a few days before (“his advent . . . ought to mark the beginning of an era in the history of Italian opera” ) the en- couraging confirmation that “Even the principals who have sung the same roles here before showed . . . that they had subjected themselves to a general plan.” Scotti (Amonasro) and Homer 232 The Metropolitan Opera (Amneris) marked, with Caruso, the smooth merger of the old order with the new (Destinn, Didur as Ramfis,* Giulio Rossi as the King,* and Leonora Sparkes as the Priestess*). A performance of Butterfly (described by the Sun as “master- ful”) on November 19 was followed on November 25 by more Toscanini-led Puccini, when Spetrino suffered an accident prior to Tosca and his colleague replaced him. For the first time Tosca- nini’s habit of conducting without score was noted. In Hender- son’s view, it was evident that “the conductor knew the score thoroughly and rejoiced in emancipation from the printed page.” The rising graph of esteem for Toscanini took a downward turn on December 3 when his treatment of Carmen was described (the Sun) as “a misdirected attempt to refine things by eliminat- ing most of the life from Bizet’s piquant rhythms.” Maria Gay made her debut as a “no more than tolerable” Carmen,* (d) and Farrar’s Micaela* found her in a mood of uncommon re- serve. The latter’s state of mind may have well been affected by an episode of which the public had only limited knowledge at the time. In the first excitement attending the success of Gatti as producer and Toscanini as conductor, rumors spread that their one-year contracts had been superseded by exercise of options covering two further years. The implication was that Dippel would soon be dismissed. On November 25 a letter was delivered to the board of directors of the Opera Company over the signa- tures of Caruso, Eames, Farrar, Sembrich, and Scotti. It specified the rumors mentioned above, and expressed the “desire” of the signers “in the protection of our artistic interests and the welfare of the Metropolitan Opera House” that Dippel’s contract be extended likewise. The reply of December 6 was full of concilia- tory phrases, but it confirmed Gatti as “supreme executive head” and stated Dippel’s functions to be “subordinate to those of the general manager.” The final effect was to leave Farrar in the bad graces of the management, for Sembrich and Eames soon left the company and Caruso and Scotti made peace with their countrymen, protesting that they had only signed out of regard for the others. Farrar has written in her autobiography, Such Sweet Compulsion (New York: Greystone Press; 1939) that Gatti was “quite consistently courteous,” but “never could Operas and Artists, 1908-1909 233 tjiutc forget this first sign of rebellion.” Her own lcave-tak- ing, years later, was not without a suggestion of such unforget- fulness. 0 The foreknowledge, in informed quarters, of Toscanini’s rank as a conductor of Wagner was tested in Gdtterddmmerung on December 10. Some who came as skeptics remained to cheer a reading of breadth and imagination, in which Fremstad moved to command of a new Briinnhilde* with customary intelligence, hrik Sehmedes, from Vienna, was rather lacking in voice for Siegfried,* and there were objections to the omission of the Waltrautc episode and the restoration of the Norns. Henderson judged Toscanini prone to “dwell unduly on the phrase, to ex- aggerate the rhetorical pause, to smooth out all the rugged edges of the declamation”; but he found cause for greater en- thusiasm in a repetition of February zq, in which a different Siegfried and Briinnhilde (Burrian and Gadski) gave “inspirit- ing vigor” to tire duct. I fe commended the orchestral playing as “worthy of a Bayreuth festival.” What is now known as the typical energy of Toscanini, but was then a day to day phenomenon, found him mingling, with the repertory just mentioned, the productions of two works new to the Metropolitan Ihiceiui's Le Villi on December 17 and Oatalani's La Wally on January 6 a revival of I'alstajf on March 20, and a Good Friday performance of Verdi’s “Man- zom” Requiem on April <>. Both new works were in the nature of sentimental gestures, for the Puccini one actor was hardly more than a student work, width even a cast of Bond (Roberto*), Pasquale Amato (Wolf*), and Fiances Alda (Anna*) could not make convincing. Some opinion held that the following Cavallcria, magnificently conducted by Toscanini arrd sung with unprecedented power by Caruso (Tttriddu*), Destinn (San- ttr/za * ) and Amato ( Alfio* ) merited the seven-dollar top price more than the Puccini premiere. Toscanini's devotion to Cata- lani, one of the formative influences of his career, is well known (one of his daughters is named Wally), arrd he labored mightily to make La Wally a Metropolitan success. With Destinn (Wall)*), Amato (Gcllnct* ), and Riecardo Martin (Hagen- bach®) as performers of quality, Henderson thought the work might win a "tolerable measure of popular success,” hut it was 234 77z<2 Metropolitan Opera no more durable than the early Puccini score. Neither was heard in a second season. The old critical affection for Falstaff and its puzzling evanes- cence in the repertory were freshly revealed when “Tosca- nini . . . breathed into the entire representation the life of Verdi’s conception” (the Sun) on March 20. Scotti had an “ar- tistic triumph” as Falstaff; Campanari was once again a spirited Ford; and such new personalities as Destinn (Alice*), Maria Gay (her Dame Quickly* was admired for “humor and brisk gleefulness”), and Alda (Nanetta*) made for a production “in every way an honor to the house.” Rinaldo Grassi was, as many Fentons* are, “pale.” The venture seemingly survived what the Sun termed its “severest test” when a repetition on March 29, with a “most thoroughly 'smart’ Monday night audience” in attendance, echoed the applause of the previous occasion. A third performance, on April 2, encouraged a hope that this time the verdict would be different, that Toscanini might make the difference. There were two performances in the next season and none again until 1924. The old clamor for “novelties” was abundantly satisfied at the Metropolitan in this season, with Hertz and Mahler supple- menting the efforts of Toscanini. The first was charged with the responsibility for Eugen d' Albert’s Tieftand when it was given on November 23, to a mixed critical reaction. Henderson deemed it a “strong and vital music drama,” though doubting its future “in this Caruso-ridden town.” Krehbiel deplored its “Vienna commonplaces” and the lack of authentic folk music for the Spanish subject. There was little but praise for the cast of Destinn (Marta*), Schmedes (Pedro*), and Fritz Feinhals (Sebastiano* ) . Those who were fighting the Dippel-Gatti battle as well as the Metropolitan-Hammerstein competition rejoiced in the over- whelming success of Smetana’s Verkaufte Braut on February 19 with Mahler conducting and Dippel associated in the produc- tion. The overture was a concert-hall favorite and so honored as a classic that it was played before Act II to avoid interruption by late-comers. With Mahler’s Bohemian blood as one affinity and Destinn’s (Marie*) as another, the words of praise ranged from Henderson’s esteem for a “specimen of genuinely artistic Operas and Artists, 1908-1909 235 comic opera” to Krehbiel’s acclaim for a "masterpiece” given with “vivacity and lustiness.” Carl Jorn was a splendid Hans,* Didur an amusing Kezal,* and Reiss an excellent Wenzel.* Ottokar Bartik directed the ballet, made up of dancers imported from Prague blended with others from New York’s Bohemian- descended population. Dippel was likewise honored for his part in a staging of Le Nozze di Figaro which Mahler conducted on January 13, espe- cially for the innovation of an interior stage that gave the illu- sion of bringing the action closer to the audience. Twenty re- hearsals were not quite as many as Mahler was accustomed to in Vienna, but many more than New York was accustomed to in its Mozart; the “fine unity of style” he achieved was admired, as well as the “clean, accurate, elastic and transparent” playing of the orchestra, the “happy issue” of the whole (the Sun). The cast was quite the best for a Mozart work at the Metropolitan up to this time, with Eames, Sembrich, and Farrar (Cherubino*) all in form, and Didur (Figaro*) to join Scotti (Almaviva) in the principal male roles. Didur’s selection accorded with the German preference for a basso rather than a baritone in this part, and it worked out, the Sun observed, “better than his method would have led [one] . to expect.” For all its luster, this Figaro was something of a sunset glow to a whole era of Mozart, for Sembrich and Eames sang no more after this season, and it was not until 1916 that the work was ventured again. With the works freshly prepared by Toscanini and Mahler added to those carried over from the latter’s first season, the day-by-day level of conducting and orchestra performance was higher than it had been at the Metropolitan for years, perhaps ever. An exceptional concurrence of critical and professional opinion can be noted in the aftermath of a Tristan directed by Mahler on March 12. Beginning with a headline calling it a “great performance,” the Sun account continued: “Some years ago there was a wonderful . . . Tristan und Isolde at the Metro- politan. Lilli Lehmann was the Isolde. One beautiful summer day in Berlin, looking back over her past, she said: ‘That was the memorable Tristan performance of my life’ [see page 149]. There was an Isolde last night who may sometime remember with a great glow of joy her performance of March 12, 1909. A 236 The Metropolitan Opera superb, a queenly, a heroically tragic Isolde this, but she was not alone in her glory. . . . Mr. Mahler hurled all petty restraints to the four winds . . . and turned loose such a torrent of vital sound as he had never before let us hear. . . . The advent of Tristan became genuinely heroic: the crash of the death motive when Isolde raised the cup to her lips was cataclysmic.” In her Gustav Mahler, Memories and Letters (page 119), Alma Mahler provides the echo to this in 1945: “Mahler said after a performance of Tristan with Fremstad and Burrian: ‘The stars were kind. I have never known a performance of Tristan to equal this.’ ” “A” performance should read “the” performance, for the singers did not appear in another Tristan this season with Mah- ler. In fact, he did not conduct the work again in New York. A further interest of this performance was the advertisement of it as “complete,” which no previous Metropolitan Tristan had been. It began at 5.30, and an intermission from 6.55 to 8.45 followed Act I. When the curtain fell on Act III, however, the press decided that cuts had been made in the last act neverthe- less. A similar profession about Die Meistersinger on March 23 was not critically contradicted. Hertz conducted and Jorn was a well-liked Walther, with Gadski, and Walter Soomer (Sachs*). The opinion was that presenting Die Meistersinger complete was of special benefit to the Beckmesser, on this occasion Goritz. The other Wagner of this season was not notably different from what it had been, possibly because the orgy of scenic re- plenishment did not go quite so far as promised. Die Walkiire was much as before when it was given on November 1 8, though Fritz Feinhals, of Munich, brought a “glorious voice” (the Sun) to his debut as Wotan* (d). Of other interest was the debut, as Pogner in the final scene of Die Meistersinger at a Sunday-night concert on November 22, of Herbert Wither- spoon, a basso who was destined to be the successor (briefly) of the man who engaged him. He had more opportunity to display his sonorous voice as Titurel* when Parsifal was presented on November 26 after a season’s absence. Fremstad’s Kundry was as magnificent as ever, but Erik Schmedes was an indifferent Parsifal.* Any temptation to use Mahler as conductor of Parsifal was forestalled by a provision of his contract, and Hertz con- tinued as the only interpreter of this music the Metropolitan Operas and Artists, 1908-1909 237 had known. The German list was rounded out by a single Fidelio on February 20, with Morena no more appealing than the year before. The effort of Kahn and his associates to restore the center of operatic attention to the Metropolitan was valiant and well planned, but Hammerstein had much to offer by pursuing a program suggestive of Voltaire’s: “Let us cultivate our garden.” Hammerstein’s Garden was cultivated first in Thais on Novem- ber 11, and was still bearing fruit when Salome was given for the tenth time on March 26. Her first new role in this season was the modified role of Jean in Massenet’s Le Jongleur de Notre Dame on November 27, judged by Henderson to convey “a feminine archness” more sophisticated than the “boyish inno- cence” of the character merited. Nevertheless, it was a remark- able piece of stagecraft, complemented by Renaud’s artful Boni- face and Dufranne’s Friar. Hammerstein’s French production of Salome on January 28, with a predominantly French cast and Campanini conducting, set up inevitable comparisons with the German version of the Metropolitan. Fremstad was remembered by the Sun as “strange, inexplicable, complex, psychic.” Garden, by contrast, was “vol- atile, sinuous of mind and body, quivering with emotions that lie upon the pearly surface of her flesh.” Nevertheless, it added up to a “dance with commentary, for . . . Miss Garden can- not sing a phrase of Strauss’s music.” Save for the three musical climaxes previously admired, Henderson thought the music “a prodigious bore,” and all the efforts of “Mrs. Glynn, Eugene Walters and others to persuade the community to forget child- ish ideas of morals” did not sway his belief that Strauss had “per- petrated an indecency.” Mixing disdain with suspicious relish, Krehbiel commented: “In the climax of the dance the utmost limit of disrobing ever reached by an . . . actress . . . within a long memory was attained.” By general agreement, Dalmores was less effective as Herod than Burrian had been, Doria a fair Hero- dias. Dufranne sustained his usual level as Jochanaan. Campanini gave a suaver, less strenuous accent to the music than Hertz. In all, Garden and Salome attracted ten large audiences in this season, and Philadelphia also saw it despite clerical objections. Boston would not have it. 238 The Metropolitan Opera In addition to Garden (who sang thirty-three times, including an afternoon Louise and an evening Jongleur on March 6) and Tetrazzini, Hammerstein persuaded Melba to return for another season. After an exquisite Mimi in La Boheme on December 14 (in the able company of Zenatello, Sammarco, Gilibert, and De Segurola), Melba appeared for the first time as Desdemona in Otello on December 25. Campanini’s flair for the score was even more pronounced than it had been twenty years before; Zenatello produced “precisely the right kind of voice for this role, a hard, brilliant, pealing tenor, with far reaching high notes,” by Henderson’s ear; and Sammarco gave fine vigor if not much subtlety to his Iago. After their second-act duet “the audi- ence burst into such a storm of applause as is rarely known in an American opera house.” Melba’s contribution was delightful vocalization throughout, but little characterization; but her tones were so fresh and appealing that little more was looked for by the audience. On the same evening Sembrich and Bond shared the applause of a Metropolitan audience for L’Elisir d’amore, followed by a Toscanini-directed Cavalleria, with Destinn, Gay, Martin (Turiddu*), and Amato. The advent today of such a baritone as Pasquale Amato would be cause for cheers, and there were some when he made his debut as Germont* in La Traviata on November 24 with Sem- brich and Caruso. His “fresh sonorous style” (the Sun ) and his “taste in style” were approved, but a strange suspicion attached to him. He had sung some Wagner roles in Italy, and there were forebodings that he might be the first in a series of principals de- signed to turn back the clock to Wagner in Italian. Amato sang Amfortas* in Parsifal on February 22 and remained a member of the company, with occasional intervals, until 1933: but the dread thing never happened. As Marcello* on November 21, Rigoletto* on November 28, Alfio* in Cavalleria on Decem- ber 17, through a succession of leading baritone roles (Di Luna in Trovatore, Tonio, Sharpless, Amonasro, Valentin, and En- rico Ashton in Lucia ) Amato’s art was staunch, his voice ap- pealing. Destinn’s success was assured from her debut in the opening Aida. The most interest, in a series of well-liked impersonations, attached to her Butterfly, a Covent Garden sensation five years Operas and Artists, 1908-1909 239 before. How might it compare with the favorite New York one of Farrar? The background of rivalry between them, from Berlin, further fed such anticipations. They were answered on Febru- ary 6 as follows (the Sun) : “Destinn does not look the childish Cio-Cio-San [but] the artistic glory of her impersonation is found in . . . wonderfully eloquent singing of the music, to which her dramatic voice is perfectly suited.” For Frances Alda the way was a good deal more difficult. She did not match “the standard of the house” in Henderson’s opinion of her debut as Gilda* (d) in Rigoletto on December 7, though her voice had “a pretty enough natural quality.” Her Marguerite* in Faust on January 1 was similarly discouraging, but the critic thought it “useless” to waste words on her per- formance as she was going to sing for three years “no matter what is said.” 1 As an alternate for Farrar when Manon was given on February 27, she did not quite qualify. Her best success in this season was as Nanetta* in Falstaff (see page 234) . An artist of quality who did not have quite the American ca- reer he merited was Florencio Constantino, a Spanish tenor dis- covered by Hammerstein for the Bonci roles. His debut on De- cember 6 at the Manhattan Opera House with Tetrazzini in Rigoletto earned him honors for “a voice of lovely quality” used “with many charming morendo effects and other ornaments of the lyric art,” said Henderson. As Alfredo, Edgardo in Lucia, Don Jose, Rodolfo, even Lord Arthur in I Puritani (with Tetraz- zini), he was consistently admired for a “voice of the most en- gaging quality.” He made trouble for himself, however, with a notoriously difficult personality, and fared better in South Amer- ica than in New York or Boston. Sembrich and Eames both came to the end of their Metro- politan careers this season, but the manner in which they de- parted could hardly have been more contrasted. Each of Sem- brich’s final appearances in a favored role was reverently tucked away in verbal moth balls, leading to a formal farewell of Febru- ary 6 in which she sang favorite portions of Don Pasquale, II Barbiere, and La Traviata, the Strauss “Voce di primavera.” (ded- icated to her) , and, of course, “ Ah! non giunge” from La Son- 1 The attachment to Gatti that resulted in their marriage in the next year was well known. 24 o The Metropolitan Opera nambula. There were gifts in profusion, and Karnes. Cay. anti Destinn paid her the compliment of posing as guests in the first act of La Traviata, in which Farrar sang the small part of Flora, withScotti. Didur, and Amato, as. respectively. Barone iYmphm. Dottorc Grcnvil, and Marchese d'Obignv. On the follow at? evening Sembrich was honored at a dinner at the Hotel Artm, the guest list extending from Mr. and Mrs Richard Aldrich to Dr. Ludwig Wiillncr. For Fames there was no ceremonial and no dinner t It her parting Tosca on February 15* fhe Sun said: l he career of a prima donna has not been one of unqualified pleasure to Mine Fames. . . . She has also suffered from great nemnmtcv. and has been overanxious about her voice. It would be natural for her now to seek . . . recreation." Main flowers and a wreath from Gatti were lavished on her. and attn tin- M-cuml ad ,!« was repeatedly recalled, finally tellmg her audience ’ I hi. « good-bye. . . . You have been vesv kind, but v*»u hive bvm very exacting. You have called for the he t 1 mmmaudr : and whatever is good in me you have brought out Mien-fore l imt much to you. My love I leave with von and 1 go Gatti offered his public Unity one vvoiks Hie. season. Hammer- stein twenty-five. Several promiseti novelties t omrr.r . Pipe *7 Desire, Goldmark’s Cricket on the Hearth, 1-ip.usa‘s Habanera, and Tchaikovsky's Pique Dame wen- laid nwr toi .mother year The Metropolitan lost $;« 5,201. 01 more than in auv year vm-.e its very first; Ilammerstem made, .ivcot duo* to hr. sun Arthur, $2:9,000. A final incident of the long season came on April 2". when Heinrich Conried’s death was reputed tiom Moan, Au; tria. Having kept in force an immune policy on Ins hte. Kahn and his associates collected $150 ,000. When had Wsr disbursed to Conried’s widow for settlement of various clam. the Metropolitan Opera Company still had a sizable sum to apply to the losses of 1906-7 and 19c" A, “ A ' The last season in which New Ymk was to he flattened bv two resident companies in simultaneous operation provided it. pa; a doxically, with opera in three- places The New lbr.On unirr construction since 1907, was now completed, the geographical Operas and Artists, 1909-1910 241 spread of operatic action extended from Thirty-fourth Street and Eighth Avenue to Sixty-first Street and Central Park West. “New" as it was, the uptown theater had a grave liability from the start, being “on the wrong side of town,” socially speaking. In time this objection might have been overcome, but the mul- tiple activity elsewhere and some fundamental objections to the acoustic properties of the auditorium closed its history, for seri- ous music-making, almost before it had begun. I he famous restlessness of I Iammcrstcin asserted itself in a variety of ways, beginning with a season of “educational opera” in the Manhattan late in August,’ and extending to an operatic venture in Philadelphia that brought him close to bankruptcy. He was an influential factor in establishing a Chicago Opera also, for when news came to Otto Kahn, in Paris, during Oc- tober. that l hmnnerstein was about to make a deal with local underwriters for an opera company, he proposed a eonntcr-dcal that resulted in a season beginning in the Auditorium Theater on November 1910. (See How Grand Opera Came to Chi- cago, by C. j, Bulliet.) How two erstwhile competitors in New York Andreas Dippcl and Cleofontc Campanini— became col- laborators in Chicago was but an incident of this unprecedented winter. Actually, Campanmi succumbed to the Toscanini competi- tion. as Vigua had succumbed to the Campanini competition. There was no decline in esteem for the popular Cleofonte, but lie demanded additional rehearsal time to meet the improved Metropolitan standard, and I Iammcrstcin rejected the request. Thus the final Manhattan season began on November 8 without Campanini for the first time, if with still another novelty, Mas- senet's Ih'rodiadc. According to the Sun, the “production be- dazzled the eve and beguiled the ear,” thanks in part to the re- turn of Lina Cava lien, whose art showed “very considerable” ' 1 It- deviated d a success, m his usual way, by saying it “lost only *SJ. tint cud of the s.i;o,oao" he expected. The repertory included stnli . lurui teustie wntkv as Louise. Lex Contes d'UofJmann, Lc Prophlte, am! Carmen, and introduced a number of artists of quality, among them Marguerite d’Alv.mv., Marguerite Sylvu (who sang both Ncdda and San- m a double bill on September 17), Alice Baron, and Alice Gentle, t hnwppe Stttiam was the n atal conductor. 2^2 The Metropolitan Opera improvement, as Salome. I lemicpie tie la Puente was the new conductor who led skillfully a cast that included Remind 41 Hdrod and Dalmorfcs as John the Baptist treu-t*ms; the temv baritone arrangement of the roles in Straus* t, with Gervdk Reache as Hdrodias. Further comparisons lie tween Struru's hard-bitten Salome and the “affectionate sentimentalist" drawn by Massenet left only such words as "pleasant" and “mgemom ' for the latter. In the framework of the time this was just one more petfome ance of an opera, hut it had a significance not appreciated nuts! much later. As well as ! icing an appreciable talented oftt-c singer, Cavalicri was a woman who not only fascinated men. hut married them as well. One of her tmmctnu* cumjuesfs was Rob ert Winthrop Chanler. of the Astor km, bom m tS-2. who suc- cumbed to Cavalicri in Paris alter bet eadv Metropolitan ay pearanccs (1907-8}. As Harvey O’Connot puts it m t he A story, “For ‘one week of joy and tenor’ he lord with l ami. who d* mancled he sign over his entire foituuc to lua A f trend lent him fare to escape to America, where to hi-, u het he found that his trustees his older brother* iciionl to tecugmv h: deed of gift to Lina. She was forced to hr ati-*ir«> with neb a part of Bob’s million and a divorce." She wa*. haidb weh »mc at the Metropolitan after that, and when 1 Limine a .!> m per.r.f-ei in presenting her in New York, flu* thuab and lepu.d.' %n\ minated in the plan to buy him out. On this November 8 the Metropolitan began it-. Hfonkbu season with Farrar and Jdrn in Mtimm, and the m-w Boston Opera House opened with Lu (hoeom/ti Constant mo had Ix-rts hired away from Hammerstein to prtfotm tot Hems Km Ml the Boston impresario. Russell then eiifoved an ami able irhtmti with the Metropolitan which allowed him to pu .rut Notdi a Homer, and Anna Meitschik (one of Calti's new .ne'er., .n La Cieca). A Baltimore season using Metropolitan t.ih-nf also ventured. Before it was mu, open h id tadiated from New York as far south as Atlanta and nutsc.i-. t.« Pan . 1 we page 2 ; ? It was an epoch of empire- budding, amt d m radio ids, why it-* in opera? All one could lose was a hutune ami vane did 'Flint, however, was hardh .1 drtrrfent »n »hr mrn “of h*M social position and almost fathomless hium i.d means" otnmrd Operas and Artists, 1909-1910 243 y the Sun at the Metropolitan opening of November 15. This aoconda, a more splendid one than Boston’s, was imported ■om JVlilan and dubbed “remarkable.” Under Toscanini’s ur- ent "baton the orchestra was found “to be worthy of a great ,nc th eater.” Caruso sang “Cielo e mar” with “beautiful canti- na, and Destinn, Amato, Meitschik, and De Segurola col- iborated in a “vital interpretation . . . rare at all times and in 11 places.” Here, certainly, was a crossroad. As the critical ear harked tack to other Giocondas, Enzos, Barnabas, to Nilsson, Fursch- dadi and Del Puente, the eye and the mind had to agree that ometliing closer to the whole of Ponchielli’s invention was being experienced. A page had been turned, and on it was inscribed a lew set of standards by which the presentation of opera was to ie measured. As big and bold as John Hancock’s, the signature hereto was plainly Arturo Toscanini’s. Tire ^Manhattan Opera offering of this November 15 was Lucia vith Luisa Tetrazzini, and a tenor of “very pretty quality,” John McCormack, as Edgardo. He had made his debut on Novem- ber xo, in a Traviata with Tetrazzini, and won encouragement from tire Sun for “a lyric tenor voice of much natural beauty,” and from the Tribune for its quality of “rare sweetness.” His acting was almost as naive as Caruso’s had been in his early years, but Ire sang many a fine operatic performance before deciding that tire concert-singing was his true metier. On Tuesday night, November 16, the third ring of New York’s operatic circus swung into activity with Massenet’s Werther, the first opera to be given in the New Theater. Farrar sang Char- lotte and the young Alma Gluck had an amazing success as Soplrie,’* in a surpassingly fine cast with Edmond Clement (Werther* ) and Dinh Gilly (Albert*). Lest he be thought re- miss, Lfammerstein initiated an opera-comique season of his own on the same night, with La Fille de Mme Angot. The cast lacked, notable names, but there were many who preferred Lecoq to NTassenet. Guarded opinions about the qualities of the New Theater be- came more outspoken after a Hertz-directed Verkaufte Braut on the following afternoon provided a more dependable measure- ment of its properties. In some spots the voices predominated; 244 TTie Metropolitan Opera in others, the orchestra. Most seriously, the hoped-for intimacy had not been achieved, largely because of that endemic New York ailment, too many boxes. “What a pity,” commented the Sun of November 20, “that the wealthy men who so generously contributed the money for the erection of the house were not a little less liberal in their ideas. If they had been less concerned about providing an auditorium large enough to furnish them- selves and society with a certain element of exclusiveness while at the same time offering abundant accommodations for ‘the people,’ we should have had a smaller theater and perhaps con- ditions more favorable to both drama and opera bouffe.” (The boxes were at the rear of the orchestra, but no small liability to its design nevertheless.) The ensuing comparison with the Mu- nich Residenz Theater and its “revolving stage” (in 1909) is more than I can bear to reproduce. Lamentations were short-lived, however, in a week that brought Leo Slezak’s debut as an Otello* of “prodigious physi- cal height and lofty artistic stature” (the Sun) on November 17, in a performance under Toscanini that “gave the significance of this noble score to a degree perhaps never surpassed here.” Scotti was Scotti as Iago, but Alda was not Melba as Desdemona.* The harried journalists spent as much of the evening as they could allot at the Manhattan, where Massenet’s Sapho was hav- ing its American premiere with Garden. Her Fanny Le Grand was a “tone poem of costuming,” in Henderson’s view, and bril- liantly acted, the score without a page that would withstand “searching examination.” Krehbiel, however, found much of it “admirable and ingratiating.” Dalinores (Jean), D’Alvarez (Di- vonne), and Dufranne (Caoudal) were all dependable. The withdrawal of Sembrich and Eames left several of their favorite roles open for qualified replacements, but the coloratura parts fared more poorly than the dramatic. Lydia Lipkowska was offered as Violetta* in La Traviata on November 18, but her light voice and pretty appearance did not satisfy yearnings for Sembrich. On the other hand, Tosca with Farrar on Novem- ber 22 and Fremstad on December 11 offered something of in- terest with each new impersonation. Farrar, a “beauteous vision in vermilion and grey” left for the future a full realization of Operas and Artists, 1909-1910 245 “The Appeal to the Virgin” (still not called “Vissi d’ arte”), but the reasons for Scarpia’s (Scotti’s) interest were quite evident. Fremstad’s Tosca was “interesting, because she is too intelligent to do anything badly” (Henderson), and artistically composed, if not successfully costumed. Amato was the new Scarpia,* and a promising one. Fremstad had a greater success in a part long associated with Eames when she sang Elsa* in Lohengrin on December 18 with “a skill that commanded not only admira- tion but even astonishment.” Recalling her beginnings as a mezzo, the Sun described her management of the high tones “as clever in the extreme.” While Tetrazzini was drawing applause for Marie in La Fille du regiment (with McCormack, Gilibert, and Duchene) , for Gilda in Rigoletto (with McCormack and Renaud), and in Lakme (with McCormack and Huberdeau), the Metropolitan had no more than Lipkowskas under other names. One was Bernice de Pasquali, who had sung briefly in the previous season, and returned, without critical urging, in L’Elisir d’amore and Don Pasquale; another was Elvira de Hidalgo, who made her debut as Rosina* (d) on March 7. The Sun recognized that she was “young and inexperienced,” and was “expected to show promise, which she did,” but doubted that “old frequenters of the Metropolitan . . . [considered] the institution as a nursery for little girls.” On January 14 Jane Noria “assisted in lowering the standard of the prima donna to a point never known” in Metropolitan history with her Marguerite* in Faust. The Sun’s sweeping judgment was not without a background: Mme Noria, who had sung as Jane Ludwig with various small opera com- panies, was now the wife of Gatti’s secretary, Centanini. Her right to sing was thus suspect. The low estate of the high voice was an undoubted matter of concern, but there was a rising line of esteem to meet and sur- pass this falling one. Gluck’s Orfeo had been given at the Metro- politan in 1891, and 1893, an d 1895 without setting any stand- ards save for ineptitude. Its presentation on December 23 with Toscanini conducting invoked some dusty comparisons with a concert version by Theodore Thomas in 1896, but even this could not match the “taste, enthusiasm, and musicianship” that 246 The Metropolitan Opera governed the present production, its possession of both “re- pose . . . and the tragic note.” Henderson further described Homer’s Orfeo* as the “most satisfactory vocal art she has ex- hibited at any time,” and Aldrich in the Times found Gadski’s Eurydice* “admirable in style.” Alten was Amor.* An enchant- ing bit of song was provided by Alma Gluck as the Happy Shade.* Toscanini amended the Gevaert version by inserting “Divinitds du Styx ” from A Iceste as a climax to Act I, adding a trio from Paride ed Elena after “Che faro," and substituting a chorus from Echo et Narcisse for Gluck’s finale. On January 29 a well-regarded French contralto, Marie Delna, sang Orfeo,* with results that prompted Henderson to say: “Her respect for rhythm was slight . . . which must have taxed Mr. Toscanini’s skill to keep the accompaniment in union with her.” The gen- eral regard for her beautiful voice did not alter Delna’s feeling that she had been ill-used, and she left the company, complain- ingly, after three further appearances. The incident, however, was not quite closed (see page 255). As for Orfeo, it remained a Metropolitan honor as long as Toscanini did. The inexorable fulfillment of the predestined conditions on which Toscanini “would come” to the Metropolitan occurred in this season when he conducted a new production of Tristan on November 27 and his first Meistersinger on March 27. Mario Fortuny, described as “a one time friend of Wagner,” was the designer of the former, which was given with Gadski, Burrian, Homer, Blass, and Amato (Kurvenal*). Of this generally fa- miliar cast, none had previously sung with so much “finish of phrase, tone and nuance” said the Sun. The orchestral direction, “unexpectedly subdued” in Act I, “surged in inspiring grandeur” in Act II, and the climax of Act III was brought out “with su- perb power.” On December 8 Nordica reappeared to sing her last Metropolitan Isolde, 1 to Krehbiel’s ear “very near to what it was a decade ago in beauty of tone . . . and dramatic inten- sity.” On December 27 Fremstad’s Isolde was commended by 1 This ill-starred singer did not sing again at the Metropolitan, and rarely again in public after a nervous breakdown that kept her inactive un- til 1913. She was en route to Australia for a concert tour when she be- came ill and sought hospitalization in Java, where she died on May 10, 1914, at fifty-seven. Operas and Artists, igog-igio 247 Henderson as “one of the loveliest portraits in the Metropoli- tan’s Wagnerian gallery.” There were no major disagreements about Toscanini’s Tristan, but his Meistersinger, with Gadski, Slezak (Walther*), Soomer (Sachs), Goritz, and Reiss, was more controversial. For Aldrich, in the Times, it was his Metropolitan masterwork, a “profoundly beautiful and poetical performance” that reached “a pitch of perfection . of instrumental color . . . unique of its kind.” In Henderson’s opinion, the very Italianness of the treatment was inimical to “German thought, custom and feeling.” The lyric episodes were read with “insight and sympathy,” but the lighter moods suffered from “the manifest inability of the con- ductor to saturate himself with the spirit of the scene . . . from his failure to follow every nuance of the dialogue.” This in- cluded the Dance of the Apprentices— “heavy, tame and angu- lar”— and the gathering of the guilds. The second act, Henderson agreed, was “musically wonderful.” Few Walthers since De Reszke had approached Slezak for vocal power, pride of bearing, or rightness of action. This remarkable tenor, of the towering figure, the sizable girth, the eloquent voice, and the effervescent spirit, came with little forewarning and dominated a series of roles both exacting and various. Otello, as mentioned (page 244) was the first, fob lowed by Manrico* in II Trovatore on December 1, Rhadames* in Aida on December 29, Tannhauser* on January 17, and several novelties before the climactic Walther von Stolzing. The Sun (not Henderson, who was busy elsewhere on that night) termed him “the most impressive Radames in years,” and Aldrich found some of his performances “superb.” When he sang his Tann- hauser, after a series of Italian parts, Henderson resorted to terms rarely used since the German seasons to commend his “beautiful devotion to high dramatic ideals.” His “splendor of voice, skill in tone production [and] clear enunciation” were worthy testimonials to his studies with Adolf Robinson and Jean de Reszke. In an article of January 23 the same writer lik- ened him to the fabled Niemann, arguing that this “youthful giant” (Slezak was then thirty-seven) might rise to a like “com- manding position.” Slezak’s part in the novelties to which he was assigned was 248 The Metropolitan Opera universally commended, their ephemeral place in the repertory being in no way his fault. Flotow’s Alessandro Stradella was new to New York when given on February 4 at the Metropolitan, though it was destined for the repertory of the New Theater. The “shallow and facile melodies” (the Sun ) lacked the appeal that made Flotow’s Marta an occasional pleasure, all to the dis- advantage of Slezak’s handsome, well-sung Stradella,* the Leo- nora* of Gluck— sung with “a beauty of tone that is valuable be- yond price,” said Henderson— and the Malvolo* of Goritz. Max Bendix was the conductor. Tchaikovsky’s Pique-Dame might have lasted longer in the repertory had it not been an enthusiasm of Mahler which did not survive his abbreviated association with the Metropolitan. When it was first given on March 5, Henderson admired its “singularly insinuating musical power,” while confessing doubt that its elements of the supernatural would interest an Ameri- can audience. Krehbiel was also sensitive to the Russian’s “genius for dramatic expression,” and praised the “splendidly sung and beautifully staged production,” which duplicated the Viennese revival of 1902 pioneered by Mahler, with Slezak. The “remark- able finish, delicacy and finesse” of the orchestral playing were especially appealing to Aldrich. For the cast of Slezak, an im- posing Hermann,* Destinn, a powerful Lisa,* Meitschik (Count- ess*), Didur (Tomsky*), and Gluck (Chloe*), only praise was written. Russian being then no more a Metropolitan language than now, Pique-Dame was sung in German. The Toscanini novelty of this season was Franchetti’s Ger- mania, which left more perplexity than pleasure when it was heard on January 22. Why such high-powered talent as Amato (Worms*), Caruso (Federico Loewe*), and Destinn (Ricke*) should be combined with Toscanini’s was not demonstrated by a work Henderson described as “utterly Italian, bewilderingly historical and weightily realistic.” Krehbiel granted it the polite praise of the damning “effective,” but it was soon abandoned. In addition to the two Wagner works and the Gluck, Ponchielli, and Franchetti operas already mentioned, Toscanini also di- rected Adda, Butterfly, and Falstaff this season. The last was heard twice, on February 16 and 21. By Henderson’s word, “the Operas and Artists, igog-igio 249 performance as a whole lacked the musical incisiveness” of the year before. Scotti and Destinn remained of the previous cast, and Jeanne Maubourg was admired as Alice.* Homer (Dame Quickly*), Clement (Fenton*), and Pini-Corsi (Ford*) were not. “Vecchio John ” was silent thereafter until 1924. As early as the first week of January indications were clear that time was running out for Plammerstein. Business was good, but Plammerstein continued to make curtain speeches threaten- ing a program of vaudeville if it did not improve. In other public statements he complained that opera-singers were so much in demand that managers had to come to them instead of vice versa. That, obviously, was bad— for the managers. On Janu- ary 10 he half-jokingly offered to give up his own venture and produce French opera for the Metropolitan. A few days later he denied rumors that he would soon give up opera in New York, on payment of one million dollars. The “rumor” was remark- ably close to the truth. In an editorial the Sun took account of these unfolding de- velopments and declared “the chief obstacle in the way of mak- ing opera self-supporting” was that stars were “too highly paid.” The Metropolitan’s problem would “without doubt be greatly simplified” if Hammerstein were bought out, but the Sun hoped this would not happen. His competition, the editorial continued, “has built up a public interested in operas in addi- tion to the interest in singers,” with compulsive effect on the Metropolitan to raise its standards in “chorus, orchestra and raise en scene.” For the Metropolitan to expand into other mar- kets would be a better solution than for it to purchase “a golden silence of the loquacious Mr. Hammerstein.” Whatever impended, Hammerstein went cheerfully ahead with his program, which included the introduction of Massenet’s harmless Griselidis on January 19, with Garden, DalmorCs (Alain), Huberdeau ( Mdphistopheles ) , and Dufranne (Sa- luzzo), and the long-awaited Elek.tr a of Richard Strauss on Feb- ruary 1. It had been scheduled and postponed several times, as rehearsals revealed the need of prolonged preparation. When it occurred, the immediate reaction was an upsurge of esteem for Mariette Mazarin, whose previous appearances as Aida and 250 The Metropolitan Opera Elisabeth (in a French Tannhduser) had suggested nothing like the capacities to sing, as Henderson put it, “with astonishing accuracy an interminable series of notes” scarcely related to old concepts of harmonic sense. For Aldrich, no previous effort showed “the dramatic power, the intensity of conception . . . that shine in this achievement of hers.” The opera was another matter. Estimates of the text ranged from Henderson’s denunciation of its “putrid morbidity” to Krehbiel’s contention that it ventured “into the madhouse.” The power of Strauss’s score at its climaxes was acknowledged, along with early stretches Henderson found “deadly dull.” To Aldrich, Elektra at its greatest “scarcely rises to the splendors that mark the great climaxes of Salome” (the so recently de- nounced Salomel), while Krehbiel compiled what seemed a scholarly allusion by calling Elektra “as unHellenic as Bernard Shaw’s notion of Cleopatra is un-antique— or rather, let us say, was, for all of these artistic abortions fortunately pass away quickly.” Gerville-Reache as Clytemnestra and Huberdeau as Orestes were both excellent, but it was imagined that the score might sound quite differently under a conductor less polite, gen- tle, and considerate than De la Fuente. Not the least reported occurrence of the premiere was the col- lapse of Mazarin as she was taking her curtain calls with Ham- merstein, Jacques Coini, the stage director, and De la Fuente. She was quickly revived, however, and continued her season’s work with performances of Elektra on February 7 and 12. The latter performance, on a Saturday afternoon, found Hammer- stein faced with an emergency, Cavalieri being unable to appear in the evening’s Herodiade. Mazarin volunteered to sing Mas- senet at night after Strauss in the daytime, and Hammerstein quickly had a gold watch inscribed for her to honor the double duty. On March 24 the Manhattan gave its last day of Hammer- stein opera— Garden as Salome in the afternoon, Mazarin as Elektra at night. According to the Sun, “he issued Richard Strauss commutation tickets by the purchase of which the user could attend both performances for the price of one.” As if anticipating the events to come, Hammerstein left New Yorkers with the memory of a gigantic gala, which began at 8.20 with Cavalieri and Gentle in an episode from Les Contes d’Hojf- Operas and Artists , 1909-1910 251 mann and was in progress at 11.30 when Garden had finished an excerpt from Romeo et Juliette , with an hour’s music still to come. 1 Hammerstein kept up his bold front, promised better things for “next year,” and twitted the Metropolitan for losing more money than he had. Despite the apprehensions expressed about the future of Ger- man opera, especially Wagner, under the Gatti-Toscanini influ- ence, the Metropolitan gave all of that composer’s works com- monly included in the repertory (excepting only R ienzi and Der fliegende Hollander ), including a restaged Lohengrin as well as the new Tristan. Hertz was the conductor on November 20 of a performance endorsed by the Sun for its stress on “interpreta- tion of a music drama as a whole rather than on the vocal glories of the famous singers in the cast.” The cast included Gadski, Jorn (Lohengrin*), John Forsell (Telramund*, d) and Homer (Ortrud*). The first Parsifal on November 25 marked the debut of Clarence Whitehill as Amf ortas,* (d) beginning a twenty- year career with notable promise. He sang a much-admired Wanderer* in Siegfried on December 16, and a Wotan* in Die Walkiire on January 8 praised by Henderson for “beauty of tone, musical phrasing and nuancing . . . much nobility . . . and dignity of style.” He also sang a fine Gunther* in a Gotterddm- merung on February 1, which concluded a Ring cycle begun a week earlier. Hertz conducted the whole cycle this year, and also prepared a revival of Der Freischutz, first heard on March 11. Gadski’s Agathe* was well liked; not so the Max* of Hermann Jadlowker or the stodgy Caspar* of Blass. Admiration for the “beautiful and expressive” set pieces was not great enough, in Henderson’s opinion, to make a “contemporary audience” en- dure the spoken dialogue. Quite conceivably Der Freischutz would have sounded much better in the New Theater, but it was not given there. In all, the hodgepodge of works, aspirations, and purposes revealed by its repertory (see page 254) makes a mockery of its pretensions. 1 Garden sang at least one complete opera of Gounod— a composer not usually associated with her New York career— when she appeared as Mar- guerite in Faust on December 9, 1909. The best-known critics were busy with Nordica’s final Isolde on the same night, but the Sun described it as “surprisingly effective,” marked by “significant phrasing and nuance.” 252 The Metropolitan Opera No work of Mozart was given there or at the Metropolitan itself this winter, though Gustav Mahler of the superb Don Giovanni and the matchless Figaro was in New York, and on call. A review of the New Theater repertory shows, after the open- ing Werther (see page 243), a sequence of II Barbiere on November 25 (Lipkowska, Campanari, and De Segurola), Lort- zing’s Zar und Zimmermann on November 30, with Goritz as Van Bett, sprinkling the German text with what the Sun called “gags” in “Metropolitan Opera House English,” and Paer’s II Maestro di Capella on December 9 as works properly associated with an “intimate” theater. The audience that admired Pini- Corsi’s laughable Composer and Alma Gluck’s piquant Ger- trude in the Paer bouffe was not likely, however, to care much about Cavalleria, which followed with a Metropolitan “second cast”— Noria, Martin, Wickham, and Gilly. The admired productions of this season also included La Fille de Mme Angot on December 14, with Jeanne Maubourg a tall, vivacious Mile Lange, and Clement an excellent Ange Pitou. Despite the inferior De Pasquali as Norina, Don Pasquale on December 23 was a connoisseur’s delight as sung by Bonci, Scotti, and Pini-Corsi. An uneven revival of Fra Diavolo on January 11, with Clement rather unsuited for Diavolo, but Mau- bourg an attractive Lady Pamela, preceded the production of Bmneau’s L’Attaque du moulin , which was remembered by some as the most memorable experience of the New Theater season. Delna (Marcelline) and Clement (Domique) sang roles for which they were celebrated in Paris, with De Segurola and Gilly in the supporting cast. The first in Gatti’s long series of experiments with native opera came to the New Theater on March 31, when Frederick Converse’s The Pipe of Desire shared a triple bill with two ballet divertissements. It had first been given downtown on March 18, with a critical reaction that foreshadowed a pattern of reaction to such works to come: the handicap of a “hopeless text” (in Henderson’s estimation) expressed through a melodic invention sometimes pleasant, but more often “wanting in rhyth- mic contour.” Martin (Iolan*), Homer (Noia*), Whitehill (the Old One*), and Witherspoon (First Gnome*) were as able a native cast as Gatti could provide, but the lack of intelli- Operas and Artists, 1909-1910 253 gibility in the singing was held against the setting of the text, not the singers. On eighteen occasions ballet was a part of a Metropolitan double bill this season, most satisfactorily when the principal dancers were Anna Pavlova and Mikhail Mordkin. They made their debut on February 28 after a performance of Werther that ran well past eleven o’clock, but those who remained for a one- act version of Coppelia saw the finest dancing yet offered in New York. Glazunov’s Hungary was given twice by them in their se- ries of Metropolitan and New Theater appearances. The approaching solution of New York’s unbalanced operatic equation was intimated by the resignation on April 1 of Andreas Dippel and his subtraction from the factors involved. He was to become head of the Chicago Grand Opera Company, it was stated, and rumors that he was leaving the Metropolitan because of the fiasco at the New Theater were declared false. Gatti’s Memories of the Opera is categorical on this point: Dippel in- sisted on the New Theater program, and opera in Brooklyn and Philadelphia and Baltimore, as his area of operation. Gatti re- luctantly agreed, on the condition that Dippel would withdraw if it failed. It failed, and Dippel withdrew. A covering statement from the Metropolitan Opera Company praised Dippel for his part in “bringing about a very considerable increase’’ in audi- ence interest “in the Wagnerian performances” of the last two seasons, and pledged that Gatti’s “eclectic taste” would support the “traditions of internationalism in art” for which the Metro- politan stood. One may wonder whether Dippel himself did not draft this salutation, which concluded with thanks to him from the group, via a comforting Germanicism, “in whose services you have been since twenty years.” The headline-writer who counted out the spaces and then wrote over a Sun story of April 28 : “metropolitan a monopoly by paying $ 2 , 000 , 000 ” exaggerated nothing but the sum paid to Hammerstein in the long-expected, oft-denied plan of settle- ment. The cash that changed hands was $ 1 , 200 , 000 , out of which Hammerstein paid his debts to E. T. Stotesbury of Phila- delphia and surrendered to him ownership of the theater he had built at Poplar and Clarke Streets. He also agreed not to engage in the production of opera in New York for a period of ten years, The Metropolitan Opera 2 54 STAGE WORKS GIVEN DURING THE 1909-1910 SEASON 1 Metropolitan Opera House 2 Manhattan Opera House 8 New Theater A'ida 2 Alessandro Stradella 1- 8 Attaque du moulin, L ’ 8 Barbiere di Siviglia, II 8 Boh&me, La 2< 8 Carmen 2 Cavalleria Rusticana 11 2> 8 Cloches de Corneville, Les 2 Contes d’Hoffmann, Les 2 Dragons de Villars, Les 2 Elektra 2 Elisir dAmore, L’ 8 Falstaff 1 Faust x - 2 Fille du Mme Angot, La 2i 8 Fille du Regiment, La 2 Fra Diavolo h 8 Freischiitz, Der 1 Germania 1 Gioconda, La 1 Gotterdammemng 1 Griselidis 2 Hansel und Gretel 1 Hdrodiade 2 Jongleur de Notre Dame, Le Lakme 2 Lohengrin 1 Louise 2 Lucia di Lammermoor 2 Madama Butterfly 1- 8 Maestro di Capella, II 8 Manon li 8 Mascotte, La 2 Meistersinger, Die 1 Navarraise, La 2 Orfeo ed Euridice 1 Otello 1 Pagliacci 2> 8 Parsifal 1 Pasquale, Don 3 Pelleas et Melisande 2 Pipe of Desire, The *• 8 Pique-Dame 1 Rheingold, Das 1 Rigoletto 2 Salome 2 Samson et Dalila 2 Sapho 2 Siegfried l 2 Sonnambula, La x ' 3 2 55 Operas and Artists, Tannhauser 11 2 Thai's 2 Tosca 2> 8 Traviata, La *■ 2 Tristan und Isolde 1 1909-1910 Trovatore, II 2 Verkaufte Braut, Die 8 Walkiire, Die 1 Werther l - 8 Zar und Zimmermann 3 TOTALS Number of works 60 Performances at the Metropolitan 1 38 Performances at the New Theater 40 Performances at the Manhattan 109 Total of performances 287 a restriction also binding on his son Arthur. The indomitable Oscar was in Europe when news of the hardly hoped-for settle- ment was cabled to him. He made plans almost immediately to use the money left from the payment of his debts to build a mas- sive theater on the Kingsway in London — for opera. It still stands and, known as Stoll’s, is in use today. Aside from the $1,200,000 raised from various sources to buy off Hammerstein the opera competitor, Hammerstein the im- porter of Cavalieri, and Hammerstein the interloper in Phila- delphia, the Metropolitan supporters had to reckon with a loss of $248,795 on the manifold activities of the year. These did not end until late in May, for Kahn and company decided that the Metropolitan was ready for display in Paris, opening a short season at the Chatelet on May 21. Of the opening Aida, with Destinn, Caruso, and Plomer, the press had a mixed view. It con- sidered the ballet and settings of the Paris Op6ra superior to the visitor’s, but complimented the leading singers. Toscanini was greeted with hisses before Act II, thought by some to be in- spired by the grievances of Delna. During his engagement Lu- crezia Bori appeared in several performances of Manon Lescaut, but could not yet accept a New York engagement owing to com- mitments at La Scala. Pierre Lalo’s rounded view of the Metro- politan as a “casino company”— meaning the sort that a summer 256 The Metropolitan Opera visitor might see in Biarritz, Deauville, or Vichy— was indig- nantly refuted by the American press when the slur reached New York. The excitement and interest that Oscar Hammerstein con- tributed to opera in New York can be gauged not only from the operas and artists he introduced, but also from the powerful forces he set in motion. First in Philadelphia and Chicago, then with Chicago as base, they continued to fertilize the operatic soil in a way unmistakably his for a full twenty years. 1910-1911 Having vanquished, in a mere matter of twenty-four months, both the internal and the external opposition to their ideas— as represented by such formidable names as Mahler and Campa- nini, Hammerstein and Dippel— Gatti and Toscanini entered upon a period of financial well-being— and for a time artistic ac- complishment— without parallel in opera. Public acceptance of the product they provided was manifest in steadily mounting pre-season subscriptions. From the fifty- or sixty-thousand-dollar advance sale of the German period, the three or four times that amount of the Grau seasons, or even the half-million reached by Conried, the subscription sale mounted steadily toward and past the million-dollar mark. Free of Dippel’s contrary ideas and the irritating competition of Hammerstein, Gatti was able to plan, on a clean slate, the first of his twenty-five years of unencumbered management. Per- formances in Brooklyn and Philadelphia were restricted to the unengaged Tuesdays; the double chorus and orchestra were re- duced to less expensive numbers. To accommodate the tastes stimulated by Hammerstein, the new Philadelphia-Chicago Op- era Company was welcomed on a series of Tuesday nights while it was based in Philadelphia. For the first time the Metropolitan season was extended to twenty weeks. Gatti’s planning to make the Metropolitan a prime center of opera produced the first world premieres 1 in its history— Puccini’s La Fanciulla del West and Humperdinck’s Konigskinder. There was some talk, too, of Cosi fan tutte, but the desired cast was not available. 1 Converse’s Pipe of Desire had been given in Boston prior to its Met- ropolitan introduction. Operas and Artists, 1910-1911 257 How Toscanini thought a great opera house should function may be judged from his choice of Gluck’s A rmide for the open- ing on November 14. A recent revival in Paris had stimulated in- terest in its possibilities for spectacle and ballet, fulfilled in a way to win the Sun’s praise as “worthy of a great art institution.” Of particular quality were the designs of Puvis de Chavannes (he had done the previous year's Orfeo), for which Henderson had such words as “enchantingly unreal,” “dark and forbidding,” and “dazzling.” Dominating the musical performance was the superb Armide* of Fremstad, an accomplishment even more im- pressive than Homer’s Orfeo. Krehbiel admired Caruso’s adapt- ability in singing Renaud,* but to Henderson “he did not look happy” with the declamatory style or the recitatives. Dinh Gilly (Ubalde*) was well suited for the French manner, but Amato (Hidroat*) and Bada (Chevalier Danois*) decidedly were not. The basic fact deduced from every such sporadic attempt at restoration of a bygone style was plain in A rmide: it is only the exceptional singer, a Fremstad or a Flagstad, who can slough off conventional mannerisms and strike a new, pure manner. No one, however, could decry what Henderson termed Toscanini’s “affectionate sincerity and deep study,” which gave profound pleasure to half a dozen more audiences in this and the next season. Fremstad’s versatility was warmly remarked when she turned from Gluck to Wagner to sing in the second night T annhauser on November 16. It provided “four towering artistic figures,” said the Sun: Fremstad (Venus), Slezak (Tannhauser), Soomer (Wolfram), and Morena (Elisabeth). After a year’s absence Morena returned to sing “her music so beautifully that critical comment can only be a description of excellencies” (the Sun). Morena was also a fine Sieglinde in Walkiire on November 18, but a new Hunding,* Basil Ruysdael, 1 performed his music in a “sepulchral, ejaculatory and tremulous” manner, and Lucy Weidt, from Vienna, did not overimpress in her debut as Briinn- hilde* (d). Hertz was sometimes guilty of his “old fashioned exuberance,” but no one would call his conducting perfunctory. This being a Puccini year, with the composer in New York 1 Radio provided this basso with a greater celebrity as an announcer, years later. 258 The Metropolitan Opera from the season’s start, Toscanini extended himself to show the best of which the theater was capable. Henderson found Farrar “rich in captivating qualities,” and the conductor’s work full of “voluptuous coloring,” when Butterfly was given on Novem- ber 19, though he also ventured the opinion (noting it as lese- majeste ) that the scale of orchestral sound was sometimes “not friendly to the voices.” Presumably the composer approved a change of detail in the action before Butterfly’s suicide. Farrar gave the child a doll and pushed it out in the garden before her hara-kiri. When Sharpless entered to find her dead, he had the child in his arms. As a compliment to Puccini, Toscanini con- ducted Boheme for the first time in New York on November 21. Jadlowker had a great success with Rodolfo,* and the “trouble- some finale of the second act went wonderfully well and with great clearness” (the Sun). Few things in Metropolitan history stimulated so much world- wide interest as the first showing of La Fanciulla del West on December 11. With the composer viewing the rehearsals, su- pervised by David Belasco, whose play was utilized, and Tosca- nini to conduct a cast including Caruso (Johnson*), Destinn (Minnie*), and Amato (Jack Ranee*), every favorable factor was present. An enormous public response, even at doubled prices, created a stir that was reflected in the six-thousand-word review in the Sun and the scarcely shorter ones in the Times and Tribune. When the embellishing phrases were reduced to essentials, several things emerged. Guelfo Civinini and Carlo Zangarini, the librettists, had taken Belasco’s terse colloquial text and given it a coloration of Italian librettoese which warred with the familiar action. In the pattern of action, Puccini had not found oppor- tunities to “permit his characters to sing out their thought in long phrases,” according to Henderson. Aldrich, in the Times, agreed that “the new work shows considerably less fecundity of melodic inspirations . . . than Puccini’s earlier ones,” but thought its lack of melodic flow a willful effort to put more of the drama into the orchestra. The collaborators— Belasco, Puc- cini, Gatti— were unanimous in praise of the performance, which Aldrich characterized as “one of Mr. Toscanini’s masterpieces, so vitalized, so full of detail, so broad in its outlines.” While he Operas and Artists, 1910-1911 259 remained to keep these attributes fresh. La Fanciitlla held its place in the repertory, but it dropped away thereafter, and a re- vival of 1929 with Jeritza and Martinclli did not prosper. While new, it might have been given more often than the nine times recorded in 1910-11, but Caruso was ailing with grippe part of this season, and Amadeo Bassi, his replacement from the Fhila- delphia-Chicago 1 company, was scarcely so interesting to the public. Farrar found one of her most characteristic parts, as the Goose- Girl, when Humperdinck’s Kiinigskimler was presented on De- cember 2S, with the composer present and Hertz conducting. The original plan to present it the previous year at the New Theater had fallen through when the composer failed to meet the schedule, and the late delivery of the score also prevented its presentation with an Kuglish text. Some opinion held that this was unfortunate, that a larger public would he reached in this kind of work with a vernacular text, hut the “genuine sincerity” and “the imagination" that Henderson found in Farrar's per- formance worked its spell on many an audience till German works were banished timing World War 1. Krehbiel approved the "admirable characterization" in the score, if not all its “Wag nerisms." By general critical agreement, the fust and third acts were quite hue, the second decidedly weak. Jadlowker (the King's Son*). Goritz.. SpielmamD), and Homer (A Witch*) were outstanding in a generally good cast. Farrar's charm and enthusiasm won her lavish applause, to which she responded, at the work's cud. by appearing with a goose in her arms. For Humperdinck there was something more tangible: a silver wreath presented by Gatti. The new estate of Farrar as a generative factor in Metropoli tan productions may he seen in her participation on March 29 in the season's other substantial novelty, Paul Dukas's A rutne ct Harhe hlaic. Among those who esteemed Debussy’s Velleas, it had something of the same sucres d'estirne. Henderson described it as "a good play attd excellent opera," filled with "filamentous, funicular, festoons of music." Tut Krchhicl, the "excruciating * Campanini conducted the Chicago premiere on December zy, 1910, 111 winch the singers were Return! /Ranee), Carolina White (Minnie), Rtesshr Chain >li (Wowkle), attd H.om ) Johnson). 260 The Metropolitan Opera dissonances” of Pelleas were again audible, and he did not ap- prove the “Gardenish” impersonation of Farrar. By other count, she was a “gorgeous saffron clad figure” (Henderson), who read the text splendidly and sang the music with compelling effect. The skill and sympathy of Toscanini’s conducting also fostered belief that Dukas’s score would bear the test of repetition, but it was put aside after three performances the next year. Maubourg (Sdlysette* ) , Rothier (Bluebeard*), and Wickham (Nurse*) were others in the Farrar-dominated cast. Gatti’s commendable policy of giving a second chance to works not commercially suc- cessful when first offered was sometimes rewarded by increased response, but it was not so with Franchetti’s Germania. Two per- formances on February 1 and 6 closed its Metropolitan history. For the most part Gatti’s company this season was little dif- ferent from what it had been. In more or less immediate pros- pect were two singers of the sort he needed: Lucrezia Bori and Frieda Hempel; but until they could be extricated from binding contracts, not much could be done. One recourse was to borrow Melba, Constantino, and Renaud for a Rigoletto on Novem- ber 24, a cast that suggested, to the Sun, “an opening display of the goods acquired through the closing out” of the Manhattan. Melba’s “silvery voice,” in the same account, preserved “much of its early beauty.” She appeared on November 29 in a Traviata that introduced John McCormack as Alfredo* and Carlo Galeffi as Germont.* A nonsubscription affair, it left some empty seats, though what Melba did with “Sempre libera” said Henderson, should have been “a dazzling revelation to many younger sing- ers.” Krehbiel was partial to McCormack’s “delicate phrasing . . . the feeling and tenderness” of his art, but Henderson held him “a mild and inoffensive” Alfredo. Melba suffered one of her prolonged indispositions after this and did not sing again in the Metropolitan. In later seasons she appeared with the Chicago group at the Lexington Theater. The decline in bel canto per se was marked in other directions. Romeo et Juliette, heard on January 7 in a new production for the first time since 1907, provided in Farrar a Juliette who sang “with many strange and warring qualities of tone,” and in Di- mitri Smirnoff a Romeo* “dead, flat, colorless” (Henderson’s opinion). Dinh Gilly (Mercutio*) and L£on Rothier (Frere 261 Operas and Artists, lgio-ign Laurent*) gave sound French schooling to what they did, but there were audible complaints that a return to the style of Eames and the De Reszkes was overdue. It seems rather more remote now. Other glories there were, however. What the Sun called “the inspiration of the fervid and intelligent . . . Arturo Toscanini” illuminated his conducting of Tristan on four occasions, with Fremstad and Gadski as alternate Isoldes who excelled them- selves from one performance to another. Destinn and Gadski were the alternating Evas in Die Meister singer, and when the Walther was not Slezak, it was Jorn. Aside from a “methodical” treatment of the comedy, Henderson found Toscanini’s Meister- singer full of “high and beautiful” qualities. As long as Toscanini remained at the Metropolitan, he con- ducted no other works of Wagner — a neat fulfillment of the con- ditions stated as basic in his New York engagement. The public subsisted otherwise on a diet of Hertz, who presided when Slezak sang Lohengrin* 1 on December 9. “He was without question,” said the Sun, “the largest swan knight ever seen in this town.” He was also a singer of artistic dignity and fine expressiveness, who accorded admirably with Fremstad, Homer, and Goritz. The vexed matter of the Lohengrin-Telramund duel was at large again when Goritz fell to earth with no blow from Slezak’s sword. According to the Sun, this reflected the influence of Bay- reuth, where Cosima’s “whims” rather than “the text of Wag- ner” are respected. Doubtless to confute those who felt that Dippel’s departure would adversely affect the quality of the German productions, Gatti and his staff produced a Ring cycle, beginning on Febru- ary 3, which had something virtually unknown to this time at the Metropolitan— a smoothly functioning, convincingly picto- rial production of Rheingold. “Lights shone in the proper places and with the proper degree of force,” Henderson reported. . . Steam rose and ceased when it was right that it should do 1 At the Metropolitan or elsewhere-legend is undependable on this point— Slezak as Lohengrin perpetrated one of his classic witticisms. Lingering over his farewell in Act III, Slezak turned to find that the swan had been towed off without him. Turning to a chorister he inquired: “When docs the next swan leave?” 262 The Metropolitan Opera so, and it did not make too much noise.” Not all the perform- ers excelled previous standards, but the theatrical purpose was soundly achieved. On February 9 Fremstad sang Briinnhilde* in Die Walkiire, with special success in the womanly attributes of the roles, though the high range of the “Ho-jo-to-ho” was un- comfortable for her. Morena and Gadski were the succeeding Briinnhildes, Burrian the Loge, Siegmund, and Siegfried. He also sang Parsifal on Thanksgiving Day, with Fremstad as Kundry and Amato as Amfortas. Amato added to a growing esteem with his singing of Iago*— "bold, vigorous and inspiriting,” said the Sun— on March 11 in one of five performances of Otello directed by Toscanini. Slezak was persistently convincing in what many considered to be his finest part, adding to clarion tone a heroic stature as Otello; but Rappold was a weak Desdemona. Scotti was the honored Iago at the first performance, on February 27. The happy arrangement by which Campanini conducted the best of Hammerstein's repertory at the Metropolitan began on January 24 with Thais. Garden, Dalmores, Renaud, and Bressler- Gianoli were received by an enormous audience, with Campa- nini singled out for special applause by some who remembered his youthful debut in the house twenty-seven years earlier. On January 21 Louise sounded in the Metropolitan for the first time, improved over its earlier hearings by the inclusion of the role of Le Noctambule, sung by Edmund Warnery. Garden and Dal- mores performed with familiar artistry, but the Father was sung by Dufranne. The cherished Gilibert had died suddenly in New' York the previous October 10. Pelleas came on February 7, with Les Contes d’Hoffmann and Carmen thereafter. For his final three operas Campanini chose works not pre- viously heard in New York: Victor Herbert’s Natoma, Wolf- Ferrari’s II Segreto di Susanna, and Jean Nougues’s Quo Vadis? Book trouble was a disturbing liability of Natoma when it was heard on March 1, though Henderson could not grant the ad- mired operetta-composer 1 credit for more than "a sorry assault on this puerile nonsense.” What stands out now, stood out then: the same critic found the Dagger Dance “really excellent.” Gar- 1 Herbert’s Naughty Marietta was concurrently making considerable money for Oscar Hammerstein in a production starring Emma Trentini. Operas and Artists, 1911-1912 263 den made something thrilling of Natoma, for all its weak music, but McCormack’s Lieutenant Paul Merrill was not merely as bad as the role: it was worse. Wolf-Ferrari’s Secret of Suzanne was quite another matter, once the critics had finished with the linguistic problem of a French play composed for a German translation (Max Kal- beck’s) and sung in Italian. To Henderson it showed that “Italy still possesses a master capable of writing real opera buffa,” and Krehbiel pronounced it “highly enjoyable,” even “quite marvel- lous” in the way the composer turned “smoke into music or mu- sic into smoke.” In the premiere on March 24 Sammarco was the Count, and Carolina White sang Suzanne. Le Jongleur, with Garden, Renaud, and Dufranne, followed. The Roman revels of Quo Vadis? as realized by Nougues, impressed Henderson, at its hearing on April 4, as lacking “all distinction of style or char- acter,” and Krehbiel gave it rank as second-rate Massenet, “in- offensive to good taste and judgment.” Arimondi, a basso, was offered in the role of Nero, written for a tenor, and a full set of worthy names— Renaud (Petronius), Dufranne (Chilo), and Zepilli (Lygia)— could not redeem the workaday score. Journalistic conjectures regarding the money-making results of the season were fended off by managerial contentions that the tour was “usually a financial failure,” regardless of other factors. Kahn, embarking for Europe in April, said he would be content with “a modest loss.” Actually the books showed a profit of $34,915. Stability was reflected in the announcement, as the year’s activity was ending on April 16, that the next season’s re- vivals and novelties would be chosen from a list of thirteen works, embracing Cost fan tutte at one extreme, Ravel’s L’Heure es- pagnole at the other. The Ballet Russe of Diaghilev was also promised. On May 18, 1911 the unhappy news reached New York that Gustav Mahler, whose ill health had frequently inter- rupted his schedule of appearances with the New York Philhar- monic Orchestra, had died in Vienna. 1911-1912 Not all the promises indicated above were fulfilled by Gatti at once, or in the immediate future, but the world’s operatic re- sources— of both operas and artists— were so plentiful that plans 264 The Metropolitan Opera could be not only altered but improved over a summer. I f t hey had to be altered without being improved, facile explanations were always available from Gattis new official intermediary, William J. Guard. The lank, bow-tied, bemustached flute-playing publicist and gentleman to the press had won friends as phrase- polisher for Hammerstein when that impresario’s invention flagged— as it rarely did— but the more substantial area of opera- tion now open to him did not find him wanting. When the press, lacking other operatic news, published a statement eon taining “the annual announcement of Farrar’s rejection of Scotti’s proposal of marriage,” the fine Irish hand of Guard a native of Limerick, no less— was unmistakably evident. The ring of familiar names in greater profusion that tolled in the second decade of the century was mingled with another sound to become increasingly familiar. For the first time since 1891, prices were raised from five dollars to six for orchestra seats. As justification, the company’s business controller, John Brown, pointed to greatly increased charges for services, if not for goods, since 1900: “Conductors’ salaries have increased nearly 300 per cent,” he said, “the orchestra one hundred per cent, the chorus and ballet from sixty to eighty per cent.” With the addi- tional revenue and the box office economies initiated by F.arle F. Lewis (who stayed on for forty more seasons). Brown was con- fident that expenditures would not exceed income. Oatti’s work justified that confidence, if not always the artistic values it implied. The second of Toscanini’s opening Aida performances, on No- vember 13, could hardly exceed the effect of his first, three years before, his own standard now being thoroughly known. But it produced, in a cast with Caruso, Destinn, Amato, and Didur, an Amneris* of “imposing presence,” with a “superb, rich and very flexible” mezzo used with “genuine vocal art” (Henderson). This was New York’s introduction to Margaret Matzenaucr, of whom nothing was known save that she came from Munich. When she had sung a dozen more leading roles in this season, her place in the Metropolitan hierarchy was very close to the top in her category. Just what that category was, however, Matzenaucr herself seemed not always quite sure. On November 17 she sang Bran- Operas and Artists, 1911-1912 265 gane* to Fremstad’s Isolde in a performance marred by Bur- rian’s hoarseness, but glorified by a new eloquence in Toscanini’s conducting (Hermann Weil as Kurvenal and Lambert Murphy as the off-stage sailor made debuts of no special note). She sang a superb Waltraute* in Gotterddmmerung on November 23, in a manner “intensely emotional, seldom overdone,” said Hender- son. In sequence came Ortrud* in Lohengrin on November 25, Hate* in Armide on December 16, and an unexcelled Orfeo* of “great repose and nobility” on Christmas Day. Her fine Erda* in Siegfried on December 30 lent character to a performance fur- ther embellished by a new setting for Act II (Hans Kautsky of Vienna was the designer). With Burrian, Reiss, Putnam Griswold (Wanderer* ) , and Gadski powerfully conducted by Hertz, con- temporary judgment doubted that a better ensemble could be heard in Europe. These were all accomplishments in an admirable but conven- tional pattern. Matzenauer moved beyond it in a rather majestic way on New Year’s Day when Fremstad was indisposed for Kundry in Parsifal. Henderson’s description conveys the charac- ter of Matzenauer’s “substitution”: she was a Kundry* “Heroic in figure, moving with all the majesty of an ancient Oriental queen, large limbed, magnificent in frame and gesture, [who] nevertheless sounded the sweetest depths of sensuous tender- ness.” The magnitude of the accomplishment grows with the knowledge that it was Matzenauer’s first Kundry anywhere. Al- drich observed that though “Matzenauer is so much a contralto, she has in her voice the higher notes to sing . . . Kundry . . . without obvious effort.” Thus encouraged, Matzenauer ventured the Briinnhilde* in Die Walkiire on February 26, without such friendly approbation. In all those sections relating to the “laugh- ing Valkyrie,” thought Henderson, “her singing was heavy, la- bored, and comparatively ineffective.” Earlier she had sung the Frickas* of Rheingold and Walkiire with great distinction. Her polished French style was valued as the Nurse* when A riane et Barbe-bleu was given on January 31; and when it came to La Cieca* in Gioconda on February 16, the Sun found it “hardly necessary to add that this admired artist sang the music beauti- fully.” In all, Matzenauer came to recognition as a paragon of the Schumann-Heink order, and more versatile. 266 The Metropolitan Opera The long-delayed debut of Tetrazzini as a member of the Metropolitan company finally occurred on December 27, when she and Constantino, of Hammerstein background, were blended with Amato and Witherspoon in a superior Lucia. Aldrich thought the voice had “gained in fullness and even in power,” though what had been “a suspicion of tremolo” was now “con- firmed.” Henderson measured her as “a vocal virtuoso who has a small stock of extremely effective artifices,” but the huge audi- ence cherished what it heard, including the sextet twice. Her voice was finally on February 6 blended with Caruso’s in a Rigoletto that, with Renaud and Rothier in the cast, gave the younger public a sample, at least, of the excitement that potent names created in Grau’s day. None could remember, however, when a line of standees began to form at half past one in the afternoon (this was a Tuesday night, not included in the sub- scription series), and patience finally exceeded bounds when the doors were opened at seven o’clock. The line dissolved into a milling throng at the box office, the attending police wielded night sticks, and some standees were nursing bruised ribs as well as sore feet when the long day ended with what the Sun called “a good performance.” It was estimated that two thousand more persons than the house could hold were turned away from this final appearance of Tetrazzini as a member of the Metropolitan company. The systematic expansion of the repertory may be observed from the very first week of the season, which bracketed with the opening Aida and a well-sung Tristan such newer works as La Fanciulla del West, Konigskinder, and the unknown Lobetanz of Ludwig Thuille, on November 18. This was apparently an enthusiasm of Hertz, for the score had not traveled widely since its premiere at Mannheim in 1898. Henderson granted the com- poser “facility in construction without large gifts of invention,” while Krehbiel protested the “banal mood” that afflicted its tale of a sick princess and the wandering minstrel who revives her. Jadlowker (Lobetanz*) and Gadski (Princess*) were strong ma- terials for Hertz to work with, and Lambert Murphy won spe- cial attention for “uncommonly pretty singing” in the brief part of a Youth.* The handsome production was seen no more after this season. Operas and Artists, 1911-1912 267 This year’s foreign composer to attend a Metropolitan premiere in person was, in the aftermath of the previous year’s successful introduction of II Segreto di Susanna, almost inevitably Er- manno Wolf-Ferrari. Campanini’s pioneering had earned him first call on the composer’s latest work, I Giojelli della Madonna, and the Metropolitan had to content itself with Le Donne curiose, dating from 1903. Nevertheless it was a novelty of sorts, even to the composer, who said enthusiastically: “I have never realized what was in my opera until I heard it today for the first time in Italian.” This seeming contradiction is easily explained: Wolf-Ferrari had been excluded from most Italian theaters be- cause he did not care for the terms on which G. Ricordi offered to publish his works. He accepted, instead, the sponsorship of a Leipzig publisher (Rather), which was consistent with his own residence in Munich, where he had grown up musically. (His parentage was German on his mother’s side, Italian on his father’s.) The composer’s delight had been foreshadowed by the critical response to Toscanini’s treatment of Le Donne curiose on Janu- ary 3, which ranged from Krehbiel’s endorsement of the whole project as possessing “great merit” to Henderson’s enthusiastic response to “a treasury of brilliant delights, of musical inven- tions and fancies.” The latter thought it should be “heard often, and the oftener it is heard the better it will be liked.” Farrar was a delightful Rosaura,* working perfectly with a cast that in- cluded Jadlowker (Florindo* ) , Scotti (Lelio*), and Didur (Ot- tavio*). The full evening of lightness and bravura was rounded out by a showing of the Mordkin and Ekaterina Geltzer Im- perial Russian Ballet (see page 271). Wolf-Ferrari had a warm reception when he arrived from Europe to attend the repetition of January 6, with ten curtain calls after each of the first two acts. Although he was already behind the schedule that called for him to assist in rehearsals for the Chicago premiere of I Gio- jelli, he lingered in New York for the excusable indulgence of hearing Toscanini conduct Tristan on January 9. The accolade of a Chicago success was hanging over The Jewels of the Madonna when Campanini brought the work to the Metropolitan on March 5, but its qualities were too com- pelling for sectional frictions to assert themselves. “The opera 268 The Metropolitan Opera has singular, sinister and striking power,” wrote Henderson, “mingled with pure beauties of no uncommon order.” Krehbiel’s aesthetic judged that the composer had “followed the spirit of young Italy into the slums of Naples.” He noted its “occasional beauty,” but found much of it “quite as disreputable as part of that population.” High praise was accorded Carolina White for her singing of the “appallingly exacting” (Henderson’s phrase) music of Maliela, and the Hammerstein tradition of ensemble was honored by the work of Sammarco (Raffaele) and Bassi (Gennaro ) . Campanini’s direction was brilliant, the response to the orchestral intermezzi prompting their repetition. For these “Jewels,” James G. Huneker had the scathing word “Paste!” as the heading for his review in the World, but the public response was keen when the Chicago-Philadelphia company gave it again on March 19. On this occasion Grenville Vernon, Krehbiel’s as- sociate on the Tribune, observed: “The final scene of the second act was made . . . much less offensive to the Roman Catholics in the audience by Miss Carolina White omitting to place the Virgin’s crown on her head.” By this time the six new works promised in the schedules of the two companies had all been seen, and it was quite clear that Wolf-Ferrari’s two works were the best of them. Leo Blech’s one-act Versiegelt was noted with respect but no great affection when it was offered on January 20 with Gadski (Gertrude*) and Goritz (Lampe*), but the first full-length opera by an Ameri- can, Horatio Parker’s Mona, called for more extended considera- tion at its premiere on March 14. It was the product of a com- petition that enriched Professor Parker (he was head of the music department of Yale University) by ten thousand dollars and much printed tribute to his scholarship. For a change, the text by Brian Hooker was praised for literary qualities, though not as a model of dramatic craftsmanship. To Henderson, “Mr. Parker’s musical design [was] fundamentally untheatrical,” com- promised by a “high minded but unrealistic avoidance” of usual theatrical devices. Krehbiel applauded the “fine capacities and high ideals” of both Hooker and Parker, deeming the work sound enough to profit from revisions. Homer’s fine Mona* and the able Arth* of Witherspoon led a mostly American cast well conducted by Hertz, but all the first-night enthusiasm of friends Operas and Artists, 1911-1912 269 and well-wishers could not provide Mona with momentum to carry it beyond a single season. The apparently endless store of works by Massenet was drawn upon for still another unfamiliar to New York when Garden masqueraded as Prince Charming in CendrUlon on February 20. The contention of some German writers that Massenet was merely mimicking the Humperdinck of Hansel und Gretel was reviewed by Henderson and rebuffed with the comment: "Hum- perdinck builded better than he knew; Massenet only as well.” Krehbiel thought it “a pretty opera, but conventional,” and “robbed of much of its musical and dramatic grace” by Garden’s treatment of the male role. Maggie Teyte was praised by Hen- derson as “a sweet and simple” Cinderella; the supporting work of Dufranne (Pandolphe) and Louise Berat (Stepmother) was also commended. Rosina Galli, whose future included rank as the second Mrs. Gatti-Casazza, was listed in the program as “Premiere Danseuse Etoile.” A week before (February 13) Car- men brought a “seething mob,” as the Sun termed it, to the Metropolitan for Garden’s first New York Carmen. Henderson esteemed it “a serious and in some respects a successful attempt to sing the music,” the dramatic conception showing more than “a trace of Catherine of Russia.” “Harridan,” “trollop,” and “termagant” were also in his description. Dalmores, Renaud, and Zepilli shared attention with Campanini’s powerful con- ducting. Massenet was flattered by an unprecedented care for the sum of his writing when Toscanini directed Manon for the first time on March 30, with Farrar, Caruso, Gilly, and Rothier (Comte des Grieux* ) . Fine singers of the individual roles had been fre- quent if not commonplace in Metropolitan history, but not such tight-knit weaving together of the many strands in the score. “It would be difficult to over-praise the beauty of the or- chestral part,” said the Sun. “It was full of spirit yet . . . charm- ingly treated in the details of nuance.” It was to become even better as Toscanini impressed his conception on the performers, Farrar particularly. Another work commonly awarded casual treatment which was to be ennobled by this conductor’s intensity and what the press now termed his “unflagging” energy was Tosca. On December 21 Destinn gave a new accent to Tosca,* 2 y 0 The Metropolitan Opera making her “a woman of the people,” in Henderson’s phrase, “well-poised in her splendid independence.” She was hardly en- dowed by nature to fill Sardou’s image, but the “fine artistic in- telligence” of her singing struck fire against Caruso s Mario and Amato’s Scarpia. A distinction in Toscanini’s direction was the clarification of the finale of Act I, which lie made go as he lias not done before.” He also persisted in his promotion of Otello. which had four performances this season, all with Alda (now known to some as the padroncina ) as Dcsdcmona. She had been inactive for more than a year, and her reappearance on Febru- ary 21 earned the Sun’s praise for “the simplicity and gentleness of her characterization. It was beginning to be feared, however, that “Scotti’s ‘Iago’ is not what it used to be vocally.” Slezak was the usual, and able, Otello. One of a steadily growing number of American singers who progressed from an apprenticeship abroad to a sound career at the Metropolitan was Putnam Griswold, who sang a notable Hagen* (d) at his debut in Gotter damme rung on November 215. Another new singer of Wagner this season was Hermann Weil, a rather dry-voiced but well-schooled singer who was heard as Gunther* in the same Gotterdiimmerung, later singing such roles as Wotan, Wolfram, and Hans Sachs. He was Telramund* in a Lohengrin on January 29 in which Destinn was Klxa.* Her treatment was more emotional than customary, but the Sun recorded that “the music lies well for her voice and its pure lyricism is well-suited to her style.” Jadlowker and Homer were in this cast. In another Lohengrin on December 22, the tenor was Herman Hensel, liked both for his “naturally beauti- ful voice” and for the smart rap he delivered to Telranumd’s shield in the first-act duel. He was not ready, however, for such larger roles as Siegmund or the Siegfrieds, and did not return. Also members of the company but briefly were Theodora ()r- ridge, an English contralto who sang La Cieca* with what Hen- derson termed a genuine “voce di teatro” in La Gioconda on November 29, and Mme Charles Cahier, who sang Azucena* in II Trovatore on April 3 and Amneris in a post-season Aida on April 11. Well known on the concert stage under the name of Mrs. Morris Black, Mme Cahier was rated an intelligent singer, but not a compelling one theatrically. She became celebrated as Operas and Artists, 1912-1913 271 a teacher and coach, her products of later Vienna years including Marian Anderson. Though the promised Diaghilev Ballet was not produced, Mordkin was given prominence in a group called the Imperial Russian Ballet, this time with Ekaterina Geltzer as ballerina. In addition to divertissements or an abbreviated Coppelia after the shorter operas, it began a series of matinee performances on Tuesday, December 19, with Tchaikovsky’s Lac des cygnes. By the Sun account, this was a novelty to New York, and the Sun warned that the popular Mordkin was “by no means the lead- ing figure” of the four-act ballet. It added further: “If one goes to such an entertainment expecting to find himself in the pres- ence of . . . high art he is going to be disappointed.” Geltzer was reckoned a “charming dancer . . . well-equipped . in special ‘steps.’ ” The familiar pattern of the Sunday-night concerts— money- making combinations of operatic excerpts with a popular in- strumentalist (De Pachmann, Zimbalist, or Spalding as guest artist)— was occasionally interrupted for more elevated music- making. On January 28 Wolf-Ferrari conducted his cantata La Vita nuova, and on April 14 Joseph Pasternack, an associate con- ductor of the opera company, directed a concert version of Mon- teverdi’s Orfeo. This followed the precedent of one the year be- fore in Rome (after a lapse of approximately three centuries since it was written), with Weil, a baritone, singing Orfeo, and Fornia, a soprano, Euridice. The musical edition of Giacomo Orefice and an English text were used. The satisfaction of the management with Gatti and Tosca- nini was expressed in midseason by joint contracts for another three years. The off-the-record knowledge that the season was financially satisfactory prompted the Sun to say, editorially: “The disposition of a season of such magnitude without loss must be credited to great cleverness in the offering of the attrac- tive features of the repertoire and company.” There was, in fact, a profit of $52,075. 1912-1913 The gradual acceleration of the opera-producing mechanism that was to function with irresistible momentum for another 2 7 2 The Metropolitan Opera dozen years was sharply stepped up in this one. A commitment of long standing kept Toscanini in South America till mid- December, but the able Giorgio Polacco was now at hand to replace him. Lucrezia Bori and Frieda Hempcl were finally avail- able for New York, and a cherished project of Gatti and I osca- nini gave the Western Hemisphere acquaintance with a whole new school of opera when Mussorgsky’s Boris Godunov was in- troduced. The choice of Bori’s debut for the opening-night performance of Motion Lescaut on November 11 was actually two .stages re- moved from Gatti’s intention. The honor was to have been the more celebrated Hempel’s, in a new production of Die '/.dither flote, but it was decided that rehearsals for this could not be organized in the pre-season period. A change to Los Huguenots was decreed, but all thought of Hempcl was banished when she became ill before sailing. Gatti’s confidence in Bori was justified, however, by the reaction of press and public, if not uniformly at once, before many weeks passed. “Lucrezia Bori they call her," wrote Henderson in a pre-season comment, “but her real name is Lucrezia Borja.” This was considered too sinister for stage use. and the familiar form substituted. On the evidence of her Manon* he deemed her “a light soprano of very moderate power,” who was “not yet a consummate vocal artist,” but sang “a phrase or two with perfect placing.” Krohbiel's admiration was more pronounced: after a first act “pallid and infantile" in sound, she surprised “by exquisite diction, impeccable intoua tion and moving pathos.” All were in agreement on her physical graces, complementary to a cast with Caruso as Des Grieux and Scotti as Lescaut. Bori was heard “with pleasure, though perhaps not with rap- ture” (Henderson), as Nedda* to Caruso’s Canio on Novem- ber 20, with rising esteem as Mimi* on November 28 and An- tonia* in Les Contes d’Hoffmann on January 11; but it was her Norina* in a Toscanini-directed revival of Don this quale late in the season (April 5) that changed reservations to raptures. Toscaninis feeling for the opera buffo style was quite without precedent, and he conveyed it masterfully to the cast of Scotti (Malatesta), Pini-Corsi (Don Pasquale), Umberto Macnez (Er- nesto*), and Bori. Pier Norina was acclaimed by Henderson for Operas and Artists, 1912-1913 273 “brilliancy of style . . . understanding . . . and communica- tive temperament.” Despite Hempel’s absence, Gatti proceeded with the newly prepared Magic Flute (the English name appeared on the pro- gram, though the German text was used), offering, as Queen of the Night,* Ethel Parks, whose debut the previous season had been prevented by what Henderson termed “a gift of the gods,” and Krehbiel described as “the arrival of the stork.” In either case, she provided a small voice distinguished only by brilliant staccati. Otherwise the event of November 23 was a revelation: Slezak’s Tamino* showed Henderson “unsuspected mastery of elegant . . . musical style”; Destinn rose to “brilliant distinc- tion” as Pamina*; and Edward Lankow, an unfortunately short- lived American, demonstrated the first “real basso profundo” the Metropolitan had heard in years in his debut as Sarastro* (d). Goritz (Papageno) and Reiss (Monostatos) were veterans of the Conried-Mottl venture of 1904. Even without a Ternina for the First Lady (Vera Curtis was the present one), the Kautsky scenery and Hertz’s painstaking direction produced, in Henderson’s phrasing of the general view: “The only ade- quate presentation of this work that has ever been made in this city . . . without question the finest spectacle . . . the lyric drama has known” here. On December 29 Gadski was Pamina, and Jom sang Tamino.* Hempel was finally heard as Queen of the Night* on January 10. This performance was quite credit- able, but not an overwhelming success. The facts in the Hempel case did not become clear until January 29 when she sang a Violetta whose first act was endorsed by Henderson for its “full bodied tone . . . immense buoy- ancy . . . and artistic attention to the meaning of the text.” Previously she had sung Marguerite de Valois in Les Huguenots at her debut on December 27 with “thin and cold tone,” and, to Krehbiel’s ear, more “power and better quality” in the high range than the low; a Rosina* in II Barbiere on January 1 com- plimented by Henderson as “very accurate” and with “facility in colorature” not surprassed “within the memory of the present generation”; and Olympia* in Les Contes d’ Hoffmann on Janu- ary 11. If these words seem, on the whole, complimentary, it must be 2?4 The Metropolitan Opera remembered that Hempd's advent tad been awaited for i two years and that she came with a formidable reputation from Berlin. Her first Violetta and its repetition showed that the ef- fects of her illness lingered long after her debut, and she had, tor all the well-founded respect for her technical competence, not performed as she could and would. Her Gilda* on March 27 hac "moments of grace” for Henderson, but even a new production of Rigoletto with Gilly (Rigoletto*) and Macnez (the Duke could not stimulate much interest at this point of a crowded season. ,, The pleasures of Offenbach were admitted to the Metropoli- tan on almost regal scale when Les Contes d’ Hoffmann took its place in the repertory on January 11. Fremstad sang a Giulietta of ravishing physical beauty and suitable voice, Bori was cred- ited with a “well-conceived” Antonia* sung in her “usual style," and Hempel performed with charm as Olympia.* No challenge was offered to Renaud’s multiple mastery, for the roles he had performed were divided among Rothicr (Dr. Miracle*), Gilly (Dappertutto* ) , and Didur (Coppelius*). Macnez was a weak Hoffmann,* and Maubourg no better than previous, unsatis- factory singers of Nicklauss.* But the serious attention to musi- cal detail under Polacco, and the rich variety of characterizations provided by the leading ladies began a long history of Metro- politan success for Hoffmann. The phrase might stand as well for Boris, when it was intro- duced on March 19, save that where Hoffmann merely titillated, Boris stimulated vastly. Despite the debatable emendations of Rimsky-Korsakov and the use of an Italian text, Toscanini's con- ducting and the “thoughtful, eloquent, well-studied” Boris* that Didur created gave a universal appreciation of Mussorgsky's genius hitherto unknown in America. In one way or another the critical view coincided with Aldrich’s high valuation of “the novel and seizing imaginative quality of the music, often rude and unpolished . . . rising with relentless power to the tragic culmination.” The production was the one executed by Golovine andBenois for Paris in 1908, bought abroad for use in New York. It remained in actual use until the late thirties, when a new painting was executed from the same designs. The well chosen cast included Paul Althouse as the False Dimitri,* Homer (Ma- ( operas and Artists, 1912-1915 275 Tina*), Case (Theodore*), Segurola (Varlaam*), and Rothier (Pimenn v ) . One of Oafti s most laudable choices was to give the work without interruption for the next seventeen seasons, vali- dating his statement when the work was new: “I consider Bora the most important performance artistically I have given at the Metropolitan.” Remarkable as it may seem, the production of Boris was but an incident— if a splendid one-of Toscanini’s abbreviated sea- son. He put a new price on company discipline, and made his artists pay it. if grudgingly, when he suffered a “sudden and vio- lent" indisposition (in the Sun's phrase) just before his season’s first Tristan on December 20. GotterdUmmcrung, with Hertz conducting, was given instead. Actually, two members of the announced cast of Fremstad, Human, Matzcnauer, Griswold, and Weil decided they would not attend a rehearsal, and Tosca- nini would not conduct without it. When Tristan was given on December ^0. Gadski was Isolde and Homer sang Brangiine, and the reader is privileged to draw his own inference. On the other hand, when Jacques Urlus, of Holland, became voiceless after the first act of his debut as Tristan* (d) on February 8 -there being no Dippel or other convenient substitute— Toscanini shep- herded him safely through the evening with no permanent effect on his vocal organs, Urlus made a welcome place for himself at the Metropolitan thereafter, as did Carl Braun (Ring Mark,* d). With the new Boris and Don Vasquale productions barely launched in Match and April, Toscanini took hold of another major task on Apt il 1 1, a concert of symphonic music that in- cluded not only the Ninth of Beethoven but also Wagner’s Faust Ou vert fire and Strauss's 1‘ill Euletisfnegel. “Too much is said about Mr, Toscanini's 'genius,'” wrote Henderson, “and not enough about his scholarship, his profound comprehension of orchestral tone values and skill in adjusting them,” For Aldrich, “He revealed in the fullest measure the qualities of the great symphonic conductor,” and prompted a phrase often para- phrased since; the performance was "devoted to the exposition of Beethoven ami not of Mr. Toscanini." The splendid solo quartet (Hempel, Homer, Jbm, and Griswold) shared honors with the excellent c horal singing. Years later, Henderson recalled as a new impact oi Toscanini's treatment, the sharply adieu 2 yg The Metropolitan Opera lated attack on “Freude!” and the precision and marching force of the choral singing. The concert was repeated on April i », with almost as large an audience as had been attracted by the first Under the stimulus of such events emerged what might DC termed an era of good feeling with the press, strengthened by Gatti’s clearly conscientious effort to find a stageworthy Ameri- can opera. The venture of this year, on February 27, was an adap- tation of Cyrano de Bergerac, for which W. J. Henderson was the librettist, Walter Damrosch the composer. Amato made a beautiful picture as the Gascon, Alda was an attractive Rox- anne,* and Martin was a handsome Christian.* An intelligent condensation in which Cyrano died on the battlefield of Act IV (rather than at a later period in Act V of the original ) was ap- proved— the revelation of his secret came in a Tristan-like de- lirium— but Krehbiel found “Gallic esprit” missing in the English version, and the light touches of the original subdued by the Damrosch music. Moreover, Amato could not make his words in- telligible, and the heavy orchestral writing was a further handi- cap. The unwieldy length 1 was somewhat reduced for a repeti- tion on March 24, but Henderson (who had turned over scrutiny of his own work to William D. Chase at the prernidre) thought the cut in Act III injurious to dramatic sense and that the act should be “partially rewritten.” Cyrano had five performances this season, none thereafter. Personal whim alone determined that this would be Leo Sle- zak’s final season at the Metropolitan, for, at forty, lie was in prime voice, qualified for roles so various as '['amino, Otcllo, or even Faust,* which he sang on December 7 in a manner de- scribed by Henderson as “sound in idea and honestly delivered,” though not “great,” perhaps not even “distinguished.” lie also sang Manrico, Walther, and Otello, taking part in the last per- formance ever given by Gatti of Verdi’s great tragedy on Janu- When Damrosch told Henderson he had completed the setting, the librettist asked how long it would run. “Oh,” said the composer, “four or four and a half hours.” Aghast, the librettist exclaimed: “What!” “Well," said the composer, “take Meistersinger.” “But, Walter,” said Henderson, you re not Richard Wagner.” Operas and Artists, 1912-1913 277 ary 31. “Slezak,” the Sun observed, “was in his best voice and ex- erted himself to leave a fine memory. . He certainly suc- ceeded.” Save for Tristan, all the Wagner works of this year were con- ducted by Hertz. The most impressive new singer for this reper- tory was Carl Braun, whose accomplishments included a Hagen* in Gdtterddmmerung on February 20 quite lavishly honored by Henderson as “the most commanding impersonation of the role ever disclosed to this public.” Later (February 26) his Marcel* in Les Huguenots, in the same writer’s opinion, was “one of the finest . . . the local stage has held.” He was also admired as the King* in Lohengrin and Wotan in Die Walkiire . Willy Buers, a Leipzig artist, made his debut as Hans Sachs* (d) in Die Meis- tersinger on February 13, singing tastefully and with an agreeable vocal quality. Urlus came along, after his unfortunate Tristan, singing both Siegfrieds in the Ring with, said Henderson, “rather more legato than Teutonic singers usually possess.” One of the notable Wagner performances of this era occurred on Decem- ber 16 when Slezak was Tannhauser to Matzenauer’s Venus,* with Destinn as Elisabeth. “Splendor of tone . . . imposing dignity of style” were found in Matzenauer’s singing by Hender- son, also “inspiring heights of expressiveness” in her scene with Slezak. In a season that offered nine works of Wagner in thirty-five performances (the most, in both respects, for any composer and his works) there could scarcely be fears of “discrimination.” Parsifal had settled to a .pattern of holiday performances (Thanksgiving Day, New Year’s, and Good Friday), at a level of execution uniformly high. If there was any complaint, it was that the centenary of Wagner’s birth would fall in May 1913, when the theater would be closed. The amiable relations by which activities in New York, Chi- cago, and Philadelphia were “co-ordinated” showed their first signs of approaching dissolution at this time. Dippel and Cam- panini had come to the end of their common road, and Cam- panini prevailed on his directors to pay a settlement of $25,000 to resolve their differences. It also assured the Chicago company further call on the services of Titta Ruffo, whom Dippel, in a 2 y8 The Metropolitan Opera practice of those days, had signed to a personal contract before selling him to the company of which he was an employee. (Gar- den and Dalmores were likewise bound to Dippel at the time.) The quality of Ruffo’s personality and art was evident in the choice, for his Metropolitan debut on November 19, of I homas s Hamlet, which had been in other days a means of displaying a Calv6. Henderson termed Ruffo’s voice “hollow and cold in its lower register, but “of magnificent power” in the middle and upper registers, with “enormous breath support” and “perfect” control. He had an ovation after the drinking song, which Cam- panini repeated. Aldrich described Ruffo in terms of “a voice of bronze,” at its extreme power “a brazen clarion.” The Italian esteem for Ruffo as an actor he thought inflated, terming his manner “tense and vivacious, restless and uneasy.” T he lightly regarded Ophelia was Zepilli, with Huberdeau (Claudius) and Cisneros (the Queen). The success of Ruffo and the excited talk about him prompted Henderson to an article entitled “Get Rich Quick Singing" on December 3 which shows rather clearly what, in his opinion, had brought the golden age of the nineties to an end. The urge to make a big sound (Caruso was the model for the tenors, Ruffo for the baritones) had made for “hurried preparations for short careers.” Nor did the house demand such power. “There was not a spot . . . where the moderato of Sembrich or the finest spun mezza voce of Bonci could not be heard.” But that kind of mas- tery takes time, and singers are impatient. The outcome, in Henderson’s view, was that “only a few singers are provided with a real vocal technic, and even some of these sacrifice their voices to . . . big tone. The others go to pieces anyhow in a few brief seasons . . . most become teachers of that which they never knew, namely, the art of bel canto.” The abbreviated season of Chicago-Philadelphia company vis- its began on February 4 with Mary Garden as Louise and ended on February 25 with Wilhelm Kienzl’s Le Rcinz des v aches. A gratefully written work for the cast of Stanley (Blanchefleur), Huberdeau, Dalmores, and Dufranne, it was rather light in tex- ture, musically uneventful. A stronger reaction was earned by Riccardo Zandonai’s Conchita on February 12, whose central fig- ure, m Henderson's words, “enjoys life by tormenting the men Operas and Artists, 1922-1913 279 who love her.” Krehbiel thought the plot “all sordid and mean,” but both critics admired the skill with which the score was wrought and Zandonai’s real gift for orchestral writing. Tarquinia Tarquini, more an actress than a singer, impersonated Conchita, with Dalmores, Desire Defrere (Tonio), and Helen Stanley (Do- lores) among the principals. Hammerstein’s hankering for the excitement and prominence of opera production came close to the point of creating a new competition for the Metropolitan in the fall of 1913, though all he proposed was “educational” opera in English. Some of the Metropolitan directors thought that this might be a good idea, but that they should be the ones to carry it out, in the Century Theater (a new name for the already old New Theater) . When this became known, in March, Hammerstein announced that he would build another theater, on Lexington Avenue and Fifty- first Street, and resume opera on a grand scale in all necessary languages: he would no longer be “bulldozed,” and anyway, all he had received for his Philadelphia house was $800,000/ noth- ing for “my scenery, my costumes, or my opera rights.” The Metropolitan’s answer was to publish the pertinent clause of the agreement with Hammerstein which forbade him to pro- duce for a ten-year period “in any language . . . any opera, operetta or comic opera that has ever been produced at the Met- ropolitan Opera House or the Manhattan Opera House.” Ham- merstein pursued various appeals to public sympathy for the con- ditions of duress that prevailed when he made the agreement; but the Metropolitan pursued the law instead, eventually win- ning an injunction and a ruling from the Appellate Division of the New York State Supreme Court that production of opera “was not trade or commerce” and thus not subject to penalties under the Sherman Antitrust Act. Hammerstein persisted in building the Lexington Theater, which had some brief intervals of glory as a home for visiting opera and then passed to the con- trol of the Loew’s movie chain. Hammerstein, patiently awaiting the day when he could use it himself, died on August 1, 1919, a bare eight months before his commitment to the Metropolitan would have ended. In the course of arguing its case against Hammerstein the Met- 1 He ignored the $400,000 paid to Stotesbury in settlement of debts. 280 The Metropolitan Opera Z™n”/ bMrd ‘?f d a staternent declaring: “Even with its current season.” If $r 2 07c— ac to* i,„„i u P ^ ted tor the „„ £. „ . ■?b z >°75 as the books show~was DrapHoallv Probably a repinand to G^ti 7 $eaS ° n **** discussion? 1913-19x4 aaKKasssiBsattea -ii*: "Kit. ■ ”3 “ -* - ~s. 0 ""-' season sale so welcome that ticket convenience of a large pre- reasons: “ “SedZ f “ <« with the agencies from whirb to °i mamtain char g e accounts ets; theagencZs Ld accSft y - ? P™ 1 ™"* theata **- charged such "service” feec b |P enor locations/ for which they untifi 919 tha t S Wl controls 2* C f d /°™ d - It was noi agencies, and not till years later that 7 WCre im P 0Sed on the instituted. a uni ^ orrtl service charge was The present dilemma involved a segment of to* w , . , bought its season subscriptions through Tyson £ C ? ' mg for them in advance in order toTecnS & o C °™P an T P a T As the openine on TWnto* , preferred locations. remitted, complaints began to reacf th^Met^ *?■ ****** ^ nient, which discovered Lf c h the Metropolitan manage- been pledged by Richard I Hart/ 0 "' 'r°' 11 ’ ° f opera tickets ha d ‘ Fred r„,,„ TT ' ’ reCt0r of T y $on & Com- His estate holds ° f ltee - Operas and Artists, 1913-1914 281 party, as collateral with the Metropolitan Trust Company for loans to buy other theater tickets. Although the opera company was not directly responsible to the Tyson customers, it had a share of the blame for endorsing the agency as a convenience (the opera’s subscription depart- ment was not developed until several years later) and filing notices of price rises through the company’s mailing lists. An indictment against Hartman was threatened, but the District Attorney per- mitted him time to raise the money to release the tickets, which he eventually did. Several years later Hartman was charged with misappropriation of a client’s funds and received a jail sentence. When the Tyson subscribers finally obtained their tickets for the opening-night performance a day or so in advance, they be- came part of a throng described by the Tribune as “the larg- est .. . ever in the house” on such an occasion. Manon had been scheduled, but was replaced by La Gioconda when Farrar came down with a cold that kept her inactive until December 27. Toscanini was the conductor, and the cast of Caruso, Destinn, Matzenauer, Amato, and Duchene responded brilliantly, though its most famous member’s singing of “Cielo e mar ” was not, to Henderson’s ear, “even an echo of his delivery of the same num- ber five or six years ago.” The audience wanted it repeated, but Caruso did not. The greatly strengthened repertory of the last few seasons was further enhanced in these weeks by the introduction of two of the most persistently repeated works created in the twentieth century: Strauss’s Der Rosenkavalier, and Montemezzi’s L’Amore dei tre re. Each gave the composer the satisfaction of knowing he had added durably to the world’s (and the Metro- politan’s) repertory before he died, 1 though valuations of each have fluctuated. The European circumstances surrounding the works were as divergent as their receptions in New York. Strauss was a world- known master whose bizarre subjects and flamboyant personal- ity often deflected calm evaluation of his creations. Der Rosen- kavalier had been widely acclaimed when it was first heard in Germany and Austria in 1911. Montemezzi was virtually a new 1 Strauss in 1948. Montemezzi in 1952. 282 The Metropolitan Opera name (at thirty-eight), and the reception of L’Amore in Italy in 1913 had been equivocal. At the Metropolitan the first Marschallin* and Octavian* of Der Rosenkavalier, on December 9, 1913, were those of the Berlin premiere, Frieda Hempel and Margarete Ober. Anna Case was Sophie,* and Goritz sang Ochs.* Henderson wasted little time in terming it a “commonplace score,” with some harsh words for the ending, which he thought “a piece of lamentable bun- gling. . . . After the story is complete they . . . maunder on for nearly ten more minutes and finish with a ridiculous piece of pantomime, evidently for the sake of doing something unex- pected.” To Aldrich, however, the trio was one of Strauss's “most successful passages,” the pantomime at the end “a quaint touch.” Both writers considered the Marschallin’s monologues beautiful, though this did not dissuade Henderson from saying: “in the realm of poetic exaltation, Dr. Strauss is nothing better than a competent artisan.” Against Aldrich’s confident assumption that “nobody will quarrel seriously” with the use of waltz rhythms unknown in Maria Theresa’s time, was Krehbiel’s complaint about this very “anachronism.” He applauded Hertz for some cuts in the lengthy score, but added: “a greater debt of gratitude would be due (sup- posing the production . . . calls for gratitude) had he . . . [cut] 30 or more pages of the score.” The smooth performance was generally commended, Hender- son noting Hempel’s “style and diction” as “the best specimens of her art we have had.” 1 Ober and Goritz also satisfied, but Case was in poorish voice, to which the same critic appended the note: “The part is written outrageously for the voice. To hear the little girlish Sophia screaming out her fluttering heart in high B’s and even a C sharp is actually painful.” A few days later he summed up: “The thing has no standing as a work of art. It is not even a good piece of workmanship.” The case of L’Amore was quite different. The critics attending the pre-performance rehearsals were arrested, then absorbed, by 1 The two great Marschallins of Metropolitan history sang together at least once, when Lotte Lehmann, of later note, was the Sophie to Hem- pel’s Marschallin, with Bohnen as Ochs and Beecham conducting, in London in 1914. Operas and Artists, 1913-1914 28.3 the excitement created under Toscanini’s direction. Querying a Ricordi representative during a lull, Henderson asked: “Why on earth wasn’t this opera a success in Italy?” Nodding his head toward Toscanini, the man answered: “They never heard it in Italy.” 1 On turning to contemporary accounts, I find Henderson writ- ing that “the opera had been a real success in Milan,” though Aldrich termed it “quite unheralded by proclamations of Euro- pean fame.” On whichever side the error lay, it was unquestion- ably well received in New York on January 2, 1914. Krehbiel thought the score “would have delighted the soul of Verdi,” and proclaimed the composer a “genius.” Henderson observed that “Montemezzi writes . . . with dignity, with style, but . he makes some proclamations of riotous passion which sweep the hearer before them.” Aldrich’s view was crystallized in the state- ment that “the composer has attained his effects, even the most powerful, without finding it necessary to break with all . . . hitherto prized in music.” Bori as Flora* “astonished her most devoted admirers,” said Henderson. Otherwise the greatest credit went to Edoardo Ferrari-Fontana (husband of Matzenauer), whose Avito,* sung with “a magnificent robust voice with peal- ing upper tones” (Henderson), suggested why he had been chosen to create the part in Milan. Amato as Manfredo* and Didur as Archibaldo* added measurably to the effect of Tosca- nini’s mastery (Henderson noted that he had absorbed the score “in three weeks”). The question of “Monday-night approval” hitherto invoked (see page 234) was mentioned by Henderson on January 10 with the casual statement: “The work must stand or fall by the de- cree of the social leaders. If they do not like it the opera will be retired. This has always been the case with operas and always will be.” He gave his own answer on January 12, with a heading that 1 Alexander Smallens, widely versed opera conductor, was in Chicago when Montemezzi arrived some time after the success of L’ Amor e in New York. Learning that Smallens had heard the Toscanini version, with which the composer was unfamiliar, Montemezzi asked for a demonstration, and Smallens obliged on the piano with a likeness of Toscanini’s vigorous treatment of the opening episode. “Stop!” cried Montemezzi. “Wrong! All wrong!” Much persuasion could barely convince Montemezzi that this was the way 1J Amor e had become a New York success. 284 The Metropolitan Opera read, after mentioning the work and the cast: “approval signifi- cant. Opera will Hold Place in Repertory of the House for a Long Time.” If this was the yardstick by which other unfamiliar operas of the time were measured, it might he well for an enter- prising manager to experiment with a few, now that we have escaped the mesh that Henderson conceived as having “always been.” Also worth considering, as a measurement of contemporary values, was a reply by Henderson to a correspondent who asked an opinion of the Metropolitan orchestra. Drawing on recent European experience, Henderson rated it— when thoroughly pre- pared by Toscanini— the equal of the best of the European ones, in Vienna and Dresden. Under Polacco or Hertz it was the equal of all but these two. To Vienna adhered one legendary, unfailing excellence: “The Vienna was better in strings.” L’A more dei tre re and Der Rosenkavalier had almost identical histories during the twenty-two following seasons directed by Gatti: forty-two performances of Montemezzi in fourteen sea- sons, forty-five performances of Strauss in twelve seasons. The greater favor of recent years for Strauss does not have to do wholly with merit. The singers suitable to his work have been more regularly available than those appropriate to Fiora, Avito, and the other Montemezzi characters, and, perhaps even more, the conductors. After Gatti’s considerable effort to secure the successor to Charpentier’s Louise, it was exposed to scrutiny on February 27 when Julien had its American introduction. Here, however, was one case when a European verdict was neither reversed nor op- posed. For all its mysticism, Henderson found the treatment “continually slow in movement, indefinite in rhythm, monoto- nous and heavy.” Krehbiel did not review the first showing, but described it on a later occasion as “obscure in purpose, undra- matic . . . inferior in melodic invention to its predecessor.” Caruso’s carefully detailed Julien* was honored as an effort in “one of the most difficult roles offered to a tenor at any period of opera” (Henderson), and Farrar as Louise* was “an artist to her finger tips.” All the smaller roles were splendidly done and the production pleased, as did Polacco’s conducting. No re- vival followed the five performances of this season. Operas and Artists , 1913-1914 285 The other additions to the repertory were similarly short-lived, though Wolf-Ferrari’s L’Amore medico, at least, seems subject to reconsideration in view of Henderson’s opinion that its two acts were “an opera bouffe of real beauty, of airy and playful humor, of ingenious workmanship.” At its premiere on March 25 Bori as Lucinda* and Italo Cristalli as Clitandro* did humorous work under Toscanini's guidance. It was followed by Herbert’s one-act Madeleine, first heard on January 24, and not even sub- stantial enough to rate as opdra comique. The Sun called it an “operetta,” in which Alda gave “genuine art” to the role of Madeleine.* Althouse sang Franjois* agreeably, also handling the English text ably. Polacco was the conductor. Nothing more durable was provided in the last series of visits to the Metropolitan of the Philadelphia-Chicago Opera. New York made the acquaintance of the fine baritone Vanni Mar- coux (a notable Boris and Scarpia), who was prominent in both of the new works— Massenet’s Don Quichotte on February 3 and Fevrier’s Monna Vanna on February 17. Of his Don Quichotte, Henderson wrote: “Vanni Marcoux proved himself to be an art- ist worthy of respect. . . . He sang with so much vocal resource, so much style . . . that he squeezed out of the role all there was in it and put a little in that was not there before.” Garden’s Dulcinea was admired, as was Dufranne’s Sancho Panza. In Monna Vanna, Lucien Muratore aroused admiration as Prinzi- valle, the Sun describing him as “a French tenor of the best type, artistic and fervent. He is an excellent actor for a tenor.” Gar- den’s Monna Vanna was of her usual excellence, though Hender- son found little in the music to merit discussion. “Who cannot,” he asked, “mentally picture Miss Garden with one bare shoulder, an occasional ankle, and a totally veiled voice?” Garden also sang Louise in this series, on February 10, with Dalmores and a usual list of associates conducted by Campanini. The contribution of Margarete Ober to the quality of perform- ance heard in Der Rosenkavalier was notable, but she was highly regarded also in her other undertakings. As Ortrud* in Lohen- grin on November 21, with Fremstad, Urlus, Weil, and Carl Schlegel (the Herald,* d), she made a debut that Krehbiel rec- ognized as “the creation of a true tragic actress.” According to the Matzenauer pattern and in the mold Gatti sought to impose 286 The Metropolitan Opera on his new leading singers, she sang important parts in both German and Italian, with Marina* in Boris and Erda* in Sieg- fried preceding her Octavian* on December 4. Within a four- day period beginning on December 24, she sang Brangane* in Tristan , Laura* in La Gioconda, and Amneris* in Aida. Her season of Wagner pursued the classic plan of Erda* in Rhein- gold, Fricka* in Die Walkiire, and Waltraute* in Gotterdam- merung, of which the last named on February 19 prompted Hen- derson to term it “so beautiful in voice and so potent in poetic utterance that she became . . . one of the grand figures of the drama.” Had the war not intervened, Ober might have remained a Metropolitan favorite as long, say, as Giovanni Martinelli, who made his debut as Rodolfo* in La Boheme on November 20, with Bori and Scotti, the day before Ober made hers in Lohen- grin. Martinelli sang on and on, through Caruso, Gigli, and Lauri-Volpi, when Ober and her wartime difficulties (see page 315) were all but forgotten. Henderson described his voice, at this debut, as “of unusually beautiful quality . in the high C of the narrative— brilliant.” As for Martinelli, Pinkerton* with Farrar and Scotti, Toscanini conducting, on November 27, and Cavaradossi* in Tosca (with Fremstad and Scotti) on Decem- ber 6, preceded his Rhadames* in Aida on the 27th, of which the Sun said: “He lacks the . . . assurance to make a commanding figure of Rhadames, but he sang . . . with a good quality of tone.” Krehbiel used such words as “splendid, clear, resonant” to describe his singing at this time, and Aldrich responded to his high range, used “naturally and easily.” Gatti added another artist of promise to his male roster in this season who could have had a long career save for unforeseen cir- cumstances. This was Rudolf Berger, a tall, handsome Sieg- mund* in his debut in Die 'Walkiire on February 5, whom Hen- derson endorsed as “manly, interesting and commendable.” In physique if not in voice Berger had qualities, to quote Hender- son, “such as the local stage has long lacked.” He also sang Walther* in Die Meistersinger, Tristan,* and Lohengrin* in the ensuing weeks— with not too consistent vocal command, but in a developing pattern of artistry— as well as Parsifal.* Berger died suddenly, however, at the beginning of the next season. This was Operas and Artists, 1913—1914 287 an ominous echo of the loss of Putnam Griswold, who died on February 25, 1914, after an operation for appendicitis. Berger’s Parsifal* on April 10 ‘ coincided with the final appear- ance of Olive Frcmstad as Kundry. Her intention to leave the company at this season’s end was no secret, and she had many curtain calls after Act II. As with Fames before her and Farrar to come, however, her farewell was something of an anticlimax. It was as Elsa —certainly not her best role— on April 23. The Sun hinted at "reasons” why this "distinguished soprano” is leaving, but did not go into details. The best explanation seems to be that Frcmstad periodically threatened to leave when Gatti pro- posed a shorter season for her, and this time lie took her literally. She cherished Isolde as her farewell to the Metropolitan; Gatti specified Elsa. Henderson’s parting words paid tribute to her "splendid intelligence, genuine dramatic instincts, vivid and cre- ative imagination.” In a leave taking speech Frcmstad said she had lived "for but one purpose, to give you my best. . . . May we all meet in that far beyond where there is eternal peace and harmony. Good-by.” 3 A notable event in the Wagner repertory this year was the new Ring production by the Kautskys of Vienna, which remained in use almost in fata till the Simonson decor replaced it in 1948 . (A new Watkiire production by June! Jorgulesco was introduced in 1933-6.) 'Phe freshly dressed stage aroused general enthusiasm, though Krehbiel objected to a curtain, rather than the specified door, as entrance to l binding’s tree-sheltered dwelling in Wal- kiirc Jdrn sang an excellent Logo* in Rheingald (better than any prior performer save Vogl and Van Dyck), and also did well as the young Siegfried.* At a noncyciical Gotterdiimmening on March 13, Ruysdael sang Hagen,* “with great credit,” said the Sun. The new esteem for Hem pel occasioned by her Marschallin in ‘ Tht: Metropolitan was no longer alone in offering Parsifal outside Bayreuth. The copyright restriction, such as it was, expired at midnight <111 December 31. 1913, anti performances were given that night or the day after m Beilin (Motike conducting), in Budapest (Fritz Reiner conduct- ing), ami Baris (Messager conducting). The London premiere occurred on February z, Artur Bmianzky conducting. * Frcmstad was actually reengaged for the 1917-18 season, but the war eliminated the repertory in which she would have been used. 288 The Metropolitan Opera Der Rosenkavalier was heightened by her Eva* in Die Meister- singer on March 27, conducted by Toscanini, with Berger, Ho- mer, and Weil. It was marked, said Henderson, by “freshness, fullness of tone, an ease of emission which went far toward giv- ing the illusion of spontaneous utterance.” A Lucia* on Novem- ber 26 was admired for “grace” and “daintiness,” but the com- prehensive judgment was that Hempel was primarily a lyric artist whose skill in coloratura had been overstressed. Nevertheless, Hempel as the Page* in Un Ballo in maschera was a decided treat when the early Verdi work was revived on November 22 as part of a tribute to the one-hundredth anniver- sary of the two giants born in 1813 (Wagner was honored with the restaged Ring). In the stern judgment of Henderson, Hem- pel performed with “spirit, personal charm, and certain musical excellence,” though without rising above “the level of easy me- diocrity” that had become standard in the last decade and a half. Caruso alone “stood forth as the artist commanding the respect of the connoisseur,” for neither Destinn (Amelia* ), Matzenauer (Ulrica*), nor Amato (Renato*) commanded the “schooling” for such music. Toscanini conducted, and “certainly did not miss any of Verdi’s points.” Illnesses prevented this fairly all- star cast from being seen again this season, Hempel and Matze- nauer giving way to Alten and Duchene. Two singers of later favor began their careers in small ways this season, when Sophie Braslau sang the off-stage Voice in Parsifal on November 23 and Theodore* in Boris on the next night; and Mabel Garrison was introduced at a Sunday-night concert on February 15. Of Miss Braslau the Sun said: “her charming voice made a pleasing impression.” Of Miss Garrison the Tribune reported: “She possesses a light soprano voice of un- usual purity and sweetness, a fluent and sure style.” The one-time perpetual Faust declined in this season to a single performance, on February 14, conducted by Richard Hage- man as his debut. “Miss Farrar,” the Sun observed, “now has a monopoly of the role of Marguerite, which she sings sometimes well, sometimes ill.” With or without Faust, Metropolitan opera was so firmly entrenched that even a rumor that Toscanini might not sign another contract could be received, by Henderson, “with equanimity.” Hopes were expressed that he would change his Operas and Artists, 1914-1915 289 mind, "for he is a very great conductor and his influence is in- valuable in the opera house. But if he decides to leave us we shall do well to wait . till we see what Mr. Gatti-Casazza will do about it.” For his part, Gatti finally acknowledged that “contrary to custom, the Metropolitan actually showed a financial profit” when he left for Europe late in April. The tentative remark would hardly lead one to think it was as much as $66,609. It was consistent, however, with a system by which the manager kept two sets of books (according to Geraldine Farrar) : one to show to a singer when a raise was requested, another to show the di- rectors when credit figures were required. 1914-19x5 The world that came to an end on July 28, 1914, when Austria declared war on Serbia, did not seem at all irretrievable when the Metropolitan began its season on November 16. America was very much that precious thing called a “neutral,” and sentiment had by no means inclined heavily to the side of which we were later an ally. The problems of gathering singers 1 from the many European countries in which they customarily summered was reflected in Henderson’s comment at the opening performance of Un Bello in maschera : “the culture, the refinement and the beauty of the town [were represented] as well as its wealth and prosperity. It was an audience well acquainted with opera music and opera singing . . . and its applause disclosed . a deeper and more serious satisfaction in the successful opening of a season which at one time seemed problematical.” The perform- ance earned warmer praise than the previous year’s: “it is not likely anyone ever sang Riccardo better” than Caruso; Hempel was in nimble voice; Destinn and Matzenauer were stronger in their parts than before. Toscanini’s Verdi was a paragon, and this year his Bizet edged close to it when he presented a newly studied Carmen on No- vember 19, with Farrar as Carmen,* Caruso (Don Josd), Amato (Escamillo* ) , and Alda (Micaela*). Objections to Toscanini’s tempos of 1908-9 were amended, as perhaps were the tempos 1 Dinh Gilly, a French national interned in Austria, was, for the mo- ment, the only important absentee. 290 The Metropolitan Opera also. Now Henderson found them "judicious,” part of a concep- tion that gave “great pleasure.” For the first time a Carmen pro- duced on the Metropolitan stage was wholly integrated from first to last, and it was properly appreciated. (The scenery was Kautsky-designed. ) Farrar sang the music “better than any one since Emma Calve,” according to Henderson, and if the playing was slightly “artificial,” she was nevertheless a “vision of loveli- ness, never aristocratic, yet never vulgar, a seductive, languorous, passionate Carmen.” Aldrich, however, missed what he described as “the smoldering Mediterranean fire” latent in Carmen, noted its lack of “rude elemental force.” At that, it was “captivating” and “interesting.” Caruso’s stiffness in the dress uniform of Act I moderated thereafter, and his singing mellowed. Braslau added an effective Mercedes* to the ensemble, and Desire Defrere 1 made his debut as Morales* (d), as did Rosina Galli as premiere ballerina. Although it was contrary to Toscanini’s stated policies to ro- tate singers in the box-office-provoking manner impresarios love, this Carmen had an uncommon amount of it. On November 27 Bori was Micaela,* Whitehill sang Escamillo* with style and dash, and Mabel Garrison made her stage debut as Frasquita* (d). On March 18 and again on April 13, when Caruso’s season was over, Martinelli sang Don Jose, with Riccardo Tegani as Escamillo.* The Sun thought Martinelli “genuinely good” in some of his music, but Tegani was second-rate, with results noted on page 296. The tempest of enthusiasm with which Toscanini attacked his work this season was uncommon even by his own standards— by any other’s it was simply inhuman. II Trovatore and Iris were re- vived besides Carmen; he gave the first performances anywhere of Giordano’s Madame Sans-Gene, restudied Euryanthe, and was deep in the final phases of Prince Igor when time ran out. After days at labor on these, he spent nights conducting Boris , Aida, Butterfly, Tosca, Manon, L’ Amor e dei tre re, Tristan, and Die Meistersinger. As preparation for the first Euryanthe on December 19, he directed Tristan on the 16th and Tosca on the 17th (all without 1 Defrere began as stage manager in 1935, and acted in that capacity when Carmen had its most recent revival, in 1952. Operas and Artists , 1914—191 5 291 score of course), with results Aldrich described in the Weber as: “tireless energy and burning enthusiasm.” Henderson asserted that “nothing of the poetic beauty of the score escaped him.” For all his mastery of “every nuance, every flash of orchestral color” (Krehbiel), Toscanini could not give Ober as Eglantine* the needed vocal virtuosity for Act II, though in the more straightforward singing she performed strongly. To Aldrich, Hempel was a “remarkably fine” Euryanthe,* and Henderson concurred with praise for both Hempel and Sembach ( Adolar* ) . Krehbiel, as indicated, was most taken by the playing of “the marvellous orchestra,” and indicated a dissatisfaction with the general repertory, even as conducted by Toscanini and Hertz, by saying that Euryanthe profited from “the kind of preparation of which all the German operas in the Metropolitan’s list stand in great need.” Toscanini omitted the tableau during the over- ture and bypassed the Invitation to the Dance (as ballet) in favor of a pas de cinq written by Weber for Berlin. The overture came at the beginning. All four performances were given by the same cast, but the work was dropped when Toscanini left. The succeeding works restudied or newly produced by Tosca- nini came at monthly intervals: Madame Sans-Gene on Janu- ary 25, II Trovatore on February 20, and Iris on April 1. Gior- dano’s return to the milieu of Andrea Chenier did not produce quite the virtue of that sometimes exciting score. Krehbiel thought it opera bouffe rather below the Lecocq level, and Hen- derson thought it would have to be carried by the performers rather than vice versa, “in spite of the fact that Arturo Tosca- nini, the foremost opera conductor of the world, has devoted . . . his unique endowments and his inexhaustible energy” to it. Farrar’s Caterina* was described by the same critic as “too rude, too vulgar,” and Amato’s Napoleon* as “a well composed char- acter.” Martinelli (Lefebvre*) and Segurola (Fouche*) were singled out for praise in a generally good cast. The work had a dozen repetitions in the next four years, but has had none since 1918. The notion of “restudying” II Trovatore produced some wel- come if unexpected results, noted by Henderson as “style,” in the melodic phraseology, “use of mezza voce effects too often neglected, and a generally successful attempt to [give] . . . the 2 gz The Metropolitan Opera numbers dramatic meaning.” Toscanini’s broadening of the waltz rhythms gave new surge to them, unfortunately not paralleled in the vocal resources of Martinelli, a Manrico* whose “Ah, si ben mio” was outstanding, Destinn, Ober (Azucena ), and Amato (Di Luna*). Krehbiel stood outside the general critical area in regarding Toscanini’s treatment of the score as too symphonic. The twenty-ninth of the operas conducted by Toscanini at the Metropolitan showed characteristic results when Iris was given on April 1. “Mr. Toscanini literally transformed” the score, Hen- derson wrote (forgetful, perhaps, that he had once called it * a real opera”). All his careful attention to detail did not make it a work “of the first importance,” but it came off as “rather im- pressive” nevertheless. Bori’s Iris* was rated by the same writer as “a creation of singular charm . . . and of delicate musical beauty,” with Lucca Botta, a new tenor (Osaka*), and Scotti (Kyoto*) and Didur (II Cieco*) filling out an excellent cast. On April 19 Iris had its final performance of the season, without change of cast and without need for critical coverage. The no- tice in the Sun read: “The final week of the season began at the Metropolitan Opera House last night with Mascagni’s ‘Iris.’ The cast was the same as before, and Miss Bori 1 effected her last ap- pearance. Mr. Toscanini being ill, the performance was con- ducted by Mr. Polacco.” Thus passed Arturo Toscanini from the pit of the Metropolitan, where he appeared no more this season and has not conducted opera again. The single non-Toscanini novelty this year was Franco Leoni's L’Oracolo, conducted by Polacco on February 4 with Scotti in his famous orange-rolling part of Chim-Fen,* in which he was seen some forty times before his retirement in 1932. Bori (Ah- Yoe*) and Botta (Win-San-Luy*) performed admirably in a work noted by Henderson to possess “fluidity without force,” in Polacco admired mustering of “lightness, transparency, and richness.” As a variant from other one-acters, UOracolo was wel- come as often as it permitted Scotti to show he was “among the foremost operatic actors of the time.” Gatti s far-ranging repertory included Fidelio under the diree- 1 Bori underwent an operation for a nodule on the vocal chords during tins summer and did not return to opera until January 28, 192 1 . Operas and Artists , 1914-1915 293 tion of Hertz on January 30, with Matzenauer an unillusive Leonore,* but one who “conquered . by the beauty of her conception” and its emotional presentation. In the same Hen- derson review, highest praise went to Elisabeth Schumann, a lovely Marzelline.* For Aldrich, Matzenauer fared better than anticipated, giving in all “one of the most successful” perform- ances of her New York career. Braun was an excellent Rocco,* Urlus a passable Florestan.* The Roller scenery was used again, as was the musical text as arranged by Mahler. Henderson and Aldrich were moved to write affectionately of the score, the lat- ter declaring that its “poignant appeal to the heart” is unsur- passed in opera. The former summed up much of the greatness and the paradox in Fidelio by saying: “Of all the masters who ever wrote a music drama Beethoven was the least operatic and at the same time one of the most dramatic.” When that distinc- tion has been fully absorbed, Fidelio will have the place of esteem it deserves. The waning of Meyerbeer’s day was more than ever evident on December 30, when Gath stocked Les Huguenots with the best names in his company— Destinn (Valentine), Hempel (Mar- guerite), Caruso (Raoul), Braun (Marcel*), Scotti, and Rothier —and found them generally scorned by the older critics. Only Rothier as Saint-Bris offered a likeness of French style in this Italian presentation; Braun was “wholly German” in manner, the others in various degrees deficient, down to Garrison’s Page* — “very well sung” for so young an artist, said Henderson, but “without the voice, the experience or the style demanded by the role.” Polacco conducted commendably. Later, somewhat relenting, the same critic granted that Caruso sang “Raoul beau- tifully, but in the Italian style,” Mme Destinn was “a good if not great Valentine, and Miss Hempel sings the music of the queen very well.” Where the vocal prowess of this generation abided may be read in the appearance of Melanie Kurt, of Berlin, who suc- ceeded to the Fremstad roles in her debut on February 1 as Isolde.* Her training by both Lilli and Marie Lehmann was evi- dent in Henderson’s commendation of her voice, “fresh, unworn, youthful,” and in a conception of Isolde that Krehbiel honored as “the work of a finished artist.” She sang both the Walkilre and 2 94 The Metropolitan Opera Sch! r S”^relv*b« UnnhlldeS i h “ Sea “ n (the ? atter > sald A1 ' beth. Leoriore in Tv 3 ^ nCr art ”)’ Sieglinde, Elisa- high level of f and K,md ry' The last sustained the her Walkiire’s "Ho-jo-tThoTm 7) rd ' Ca! and Ma tzenauer, and P^se by HenderaoX °7 average B^r^™ e ’ “f 7“ ““ rL3£® rw? of ,?? llent ^liS's^S' first two .*WeyT K B "“ 3 Str0ng W ° to i" the Schunrann” roS “ an “17 “7" 1" “*** and aeTnJft fte “ ked h 7 inlI0d “ ct0r y Parsifal on Walther von StoW* m TTST 7 C sound he produced as dersonstiIlfou7d T 7cal7c a ! rSmger ° nMarch la (Hen- inconsistent”) as Tam" • ° n ^ctmg of this score “peculiarly WuSter^d’evJ Ze°s7 " S « » » was less than twentv five ?, \ a!0 ' Elisabeth Schumann Sophie* n Der Rot r 7“ ° ld when she made her debut as deraon as d 7criS ? 7 Vemb “ b “‘ -»* Hen- heard through a career thaTe j a u was what her admirers “A light lyric sonlo ? ded W1 th her death in r 95 z ; need ® geneXlb fi“ 7 T ™"” 1 natural quality 95 . and sentiment." Her r ?‘ yle “ m “ c h taste Gretel, during the n« 7 „ 17™ “ D,<! Z-mbetfote, and but her qualities as MarzeHinel’ FiX TX speciaI not iee, X7l 9 ro h )72Xs t0 Hamb 7 (“heroshe'hadtlh" a Vienna ‘favorite! the ££,” * ^ “ prelimxtld “777 Smal,er **T ™s the coincidenlin ro t 771 X of Their specialists availalXCr-I^^'r 11 ™^ ? rn the Massenet when Toscanini conducS’^ Operas and Artists, 1914-3915 295 Martinclli, and Amato (Lescaut*) in the Puccini Marion Lescaut when Polacco conducted it. The final judgment was that the Massenet version was the one preferred by the public, perhaps on sound musical grounds, or merely because it was the older work in the repertory, hence more familiar in a variety of im- personations. Martinelli’s Italian Des Grieux* on January 16 was an inci- dent of a season’s work that enhanced the good impression he had made the year before. Neither his Rhadames on Novem- ber 20 nor his Pinkerton on November 31 drew more than pleas- ant phrases, but his Cavaradossi in a Tosca with Farrar and Scotti on December 4 prompted Henderson to say: “Mr. Marti- nelli has made decided progress since last season. . . . There was breadth and judgment in his phrasing, intelligent accent and color . . . general warmth in his style.” Praising his industry in renewed studies since his debut, the account continued: “He has an uncommonly beautiful voice and he has ambition. Ilis future looks bright." Luca Botta, a light-voiced tenor who lasted for three seasons, made his debut as Rodolfo* in La Bohdmc on November 21, and Riccardo Tcgani was introduced as Schnau- ard* in the same performance. As this season was approaching its end, the intention of Hertz to give up opera after fourteen Metropolitan seasons resulted in a ceremonial farewell for him at Dcr Kosenkavalier on April 24. Both management and artists honored him with gifts, and good wishes for his further career as conductor of the San Francisco Symphony. Simultaneously it was announced that Artur Bo- danxky. a Mahler disciple active in Mannheim, would succeed him. An atmosphere wholly uncercmonial attended the departure of Toscanini. Rumors had come and gone that he would leave, the assumption being that a little extra urging would produce the desired results. One document bearing on that fallacy has been cited (see page 17); another that might have influenced it was the year’s statement showing that profits had slumped from $66,609 in 1913-14 to $1,765 for the current year. This argued for retrenchment on rehearsals, to which Toscanini would not accede. To give fine opera and make money was a double pride for 296 The Metropolitan Opera Gatti; he thought, apparently, that the product could be cheap- ened a bit and still make money. Toscanini, it is reasonable to assume, thought it could be improved further, and had no inter- est at all in whether it made money. 'Whatever the specific points of disagreement may have been, it is certain that the last performance of Carmen directed by Toscanini, on April 13, 1915, was the spark that ignited the ex- plosion. According to the magazine Musical America (May 1, 1915), the performance was attended by Tullio Serafin, of La Scala, Maria Gay, Giovanni Zenatello, and Titta Ruffo, en route to an engagement in Havana. Word of their presence was passed along, and Toscanini looked for the utmost in co-opera- tion. However, Amato, who was ill, was replaced by Tegani (whose “doings, in these conditions,” reported the Sun, “shall be excused”); Farrar was in poor voice; and various things went wrong with the staging. Strained and put upon by personal diffi- culties, Toscanini conducted Iris the next night, and then no more. Although his absence was covered by mentions of “illness,” he was seen in public places on nights when Polacco was conduct- ing in his stead. When the news finally came from Italy in September that he would not return, reactions were various. H. T. Parker, in the Boston Transcript (September 30) regretted, in an eloquent article, that neither Serafin nor Marinuzzi was listed to succeed him. A few days later Henderson in the Sun (October 10) calmly dismissed the whole matter thus: “No reader of . . . the sun needs to be told that admiration for the masterly conducting of Mr. Toscanini was never wanting here. But there is no substantial reason for believing that the performances of the coming season will be lame and impotent because the maestro has become more interested in the singing of the bullet than in that of the prima donna . 1 The opera house has for several seasons possessed in Giorgio Polacco, a thoroughly competent conductor, who will now in all probability receive more of the general attention due to his merit. . . . ‘To most observers the essentials of Toscanini’s conducting were his blazing eyes, his spasmodically working features, his incessant sing- 1 A reference to the management-disseminated excuse that Toscanini had stayed in Italy for wholly patriotic reasons. Operas and Artists, 1914-1915 297 mg, and his gesticulations. . . . Mr. Toscanini’s conducting was ap- preciated by few. It was applauded by thousands who could not have given convincing reasons for their enthusiasm. If Mr. Polacco would wave his arms more vigorously, make more faces, and sing a bit, he would attract a wider measure of critical function.” This abdication of critical function can be merely exhibited, neither extenuated nor condoned. It can be correlated only with Henderson’s idee fixe that the opera endured when Jean de Reszke left and would endure when Caruso had sung for the last time. But to substitute, for a conductor described in his own words as “the foremost in the world,” one whom he rated ho more than “thoroughly competent” is quite another matter. It shows a grievous unawareness of an axiom of opera production: while a bad conductor can do more to spoil a performance than a bad singer, a good conductor can do more to ennoble it than a good singer. And a great one can do more to set the tone of an opera house as high as it was at the Metropolitan in those several years than all the singers in the company combined. If New York’s discriminating press did not more highly value what it had, it deserved no better than it eventually got. Prior to his apparently unlamented departure, Toscanini per- formed the following works in the stated seasons: 1908- 9: Aida, Madama Butterfly, Tosca, Carmen, Gotterdam- merung, Le Villi, La Wally, CavalleriaRusticana, Falstaff, Verdi’s “Manzoni” Requiem, and the prologue to Boi'to’s Mefistofele. 1909- 10: La Gioconda, Otello, Madama Butterfly , Tristan, Orfeo, Aida, Germania, Falstaff, Die Meistersinger. 1910- 11: A rmide, Aida, Madama Butterfly, La Boheme, La Gioconda, La Fanciulla del West, Orfeo, Tristan, Die Meister- singer, Germania, Tosca, Otello, Ariane et Barbe-bleue. 1911- 12: Aida, La Fanciulla del West, Tristan, Madama But- terfly, La Gioconda, Tosca, Armide, Orfeo, Le Donne curiose, Ariane et Barbe-bleue, Otello, Die Meistersinger, M anon. 1912- 13: Orfeo, Madama Butterfly, Tosca, Otello, Tristan, M anon, Le Donne curiose, Aida, Boris Godunov, Don Pasquale, and the concert program of Wagner’s Faust Ouvertiire, Strauss’s Till Eulenspiegel, and Beethoven's Symphony No. 9. 1 1 This was the year in which Toscanini did not report until mid- December. Hence the abbreviated list of operas he presented. 3oo The Metropolitan Opera ous aspects of stage presentation. Under the circumstances, he felt that the only advisable course to pursue would be one which guaran- teed popular support of the Metropolitan performances and a bal- anced budget." The observation of Blaise Pascal: “If the nose of Cleopatra had been shorter, the whole face of the earth would have been changed,” is thus not without counterpart in the history of the Metropolitan. THE FIRST WAR SEASONS, 1915-1921 1915-1916 If the turn of events that separated Toscanini and Hertz from the Metropolitan at the end of the same season severed a link with the distant past, the arrival of Artur Bodanzky forged one that endured till the recent present. His was, by far, the longest association with the house of any conductor in its history, barely short of a quarter-century when he died on November 23, 1939. His arrival, on October 8, 1915, found him speaking freely, even more than frankly, about the perplexed matter of cuts in Wagner. “One thing I firmly believe in,” he said, “and that is in cuts. If the length of a Wagnerian music drama bores the public, it should be cut, and I intend to see that such cuts will be made in the works under my direction ” It was the contention of the management, when objections were made to the Bodanzky cuts, that they were the same as those initiated by Seidl and perpetu- ated by Mahler, Hertz, and Toscanini. As has been demon- strated, however, their way of shortening such a work as Gof- terddmmerung was to delete the Norn scene or Waltraute’s narrative, which, if offensive, at least left other sections of the score intact. Bodanzky’s preference was to shrink the whole work, with results, the late Paul Bekker declared ( Musical America, August 1935), such as “no German provincial stage of the second rank would offer.” The company line on Toscanini was enunciated by William J. Guard, on his return from Europe, with these words: “The Maestro is a burning bush of patriotism.” It was echoed by Gatti a few weeks later: “No one regrets more than I do the failure of Mr. Toscanini to come to America. . . . Mr. Toscanini made Operas and Artists, 1915-1916 301 his decision solely because of the war.” To the growing rumors that German works might be discontinued, he replied: “Should we boycott the printers because Gutenberg, a German, invented printing?” This was a problem for the future. A present one, whose im- portance was not yet evident, was the rise of films. Hollywood had not yet been heard of, but California had, and Gatti had to plan the weeks till mid-February without Farrar, who was busy with a celluloid version of Carmen. The long period without Bori had also begun. 1 The impresario thus had special reason to be grateful for the health of Caruso, whose appearance as Samson* in the opening night Samson et Dalila on November 18 honored him as a strong man of more than one sort. With Matzenauer a warm-voiced Dalila,* able choral singing and orchestral playing well directed by Polacco, and a scenic production said to have cost $40,000, objections to lack of “French style” were overcome by a degree of theatrical power not previously generated on behalf of the work. Caruso’s presence drew strongly on what Henderson called “the standing army of Italy,” standees being much more numer- ous than for previous Samsons. Had it not been for some spirited occasions late in his Metro- politan career, those who knew Bodanzky in the twenties as the strained conductor of the entire German repertory plus the Friends of Music series could hardly credit the enthusiasm that attended his debut on November 18. His cuts in Gotterdam- merung (the Noms and Alberich were missing in this version) displeased the Wagnerians, especially Krehbiel, but Henderson thought the omissions “worth while” and the conductor him- self a man of “temperament, taste, and fine judgment.” A dy- namic variety scorned by Hertz gave new profile to the score, 1 A fortnight of performances in the Manhattan Opera House by the Boston Opera Company began on October 23 with La Muette de Portici , in which Pavlova danced Renella, and Felice Lyne, Giovanni Zenatello, and Thomas Chalmers were the principal singers. Later events included L’Amore dei tre re with Luisa Villani, the original Fiora, Ferrari-Fontana, Jose Mardones, and Georges Baklanoff (Manfredo); a Butterfly with Tamaki Miura; Tosca with Fremstad, Zenatello, and Baklanoff; and Otello with the same men and Villani. Roberto Moranzoni was the principal conductor. 302 The Metropolitan Opera and the excellent cast of Kurt, Matzenauer (Waltraute), Urlus, Weil (Gunther), and Braun had, in the words of Aldrich, “a chance to sing, not shout.” Julia Heinrich made a quiet debut as Gutrune* (d). By contrast with the Hertz conception of Der Rosenkavalier, Bodanzky’s moved with uncommon lightness in his second ven- ture on November 20. The score had also been appreciably ab- breviated, which may have contributed to Henderson’s revised opinion that the delight “of the really fine pages of Strauss’s score— and it contains some of his best,” had never been more apparent. Edith Mason made her “very acceptable” (the Sun ) debut as Sophie* (d), in the otherwise integrated cast of Hem- pel, Ober, and Goritz. For this season Bodanzky prepared but a single novelty, and that was the innocuous setting by Hermann Goetz of The Taming of the Shrew, given on March 1 5 with the German text and title of Der Widerspanstigen Zdhmung. The pleasant qualities of the score (which had been heard with Eng- lish text as long before as 1886), the spirit with which Whitehill (Petruchio* ) , Ober (Katherine*), and Rappold (Bianca*) en- tered into the lively Shakespearean action, and a production that gave full credibility to “the luxury of the life of the Florentine smart set” (Henderson) made it a welcome addition to what the same writer called “the regrettably impoverished” repertory of the Metropolitan. 1 Nevertheless, it was heard but once again in this season, not thereafter. By default of Paris, where operatic activities were curtailed by war, the Metropolitan presentation of Enrique Granados’s Goyescas, o las Majas Enamoradas on January 28 became its world premiere. This was a pleasure for New York, but a tragedy for the composer, who had made the long journey in under- standable eagerness to see his work produced. With his wife he was homeward bound on the Sussex when it was torpedoed by the Germans in March, and neither survived. The reception of his work was respectful if not enthusiastic, partially a result of its patchwork construction. Much of the score was pieced to- gether from piano pieces, and the orchestration had been amended by unidentified hands when rehearsals showed it to be 1 Thirty-four works were given in this twenty-week season. f Operas and Artists, 1915-1916 303 deficient. The since-familiar Intermezzo was singled out as the best music in the work, and there was high praise for the produc- tion by Rovescalli. Anna Fitziu made her debut as Rosario* (d), with Martinelli (Fernando*), De Luca (Pacquiro*), and Flora Perini (Pepa*). The conductor was Gaetano Bavagnoli, who had come to share the Italian repertory with Polacco. The latter gave much of his effort in this season to perfecting the preparation of Prince Igor, which had been brought to its final stages by Toscanini the previous spring. Gatti had intended to include the third act in his presentation on December 30, but its dullness discouraged this generosity, even as it had in Paris and in London. The eventual conclusion was that the camp scene, with its familiar dances and choruses (Kurt Schindler had intro- duced them to New York on March 3, 1911), was the strongest part of the score, but the other music did not measure up to that level. Amato was a dignified Boris,* Alda a likable Jaroslavna,* and Didur outstanding as Galitzky.* Henderson found Polacco’s conducting “wanting in smoothness,” Krehbiel thought the whole presentation an “event of unusual interest,” but not likely to interest the public, and Aldrich missed, in the Italian text and settings, the “exotic note” that had resounded in Boris. Gatti per- sisted with it for two further seasons, but neither the splendid choral singing nor the dancing of Galli and Bonfiglio could in- terest a sufficiently general audience to justify a place in the repertory. The most durable new singer to join the company this season was Giuseppe de Luca, with a robust baritone voice in its prime and a dozen years of singing leading roles in Italy behind him. His first role 1 was Figaro* in II Barbiere di Siviglia on No- vember 25, with Hempel (Rosina), Giacomo Damacco ( Alma- viva, *d), and Pompilio Malatesta (Bartolo,*d), when he per- formed with a “voice of fine quality” and “abundant vivacity of action,” by Henderson's standard. Also welcome was Maria Ba- rrientos, a Spanish soprano who made her debut as Lucia* (d) on January 31 with Martinelli and Amato. Melba-like evenness of registers was not hers, but the neatness and discipline of her sing- ing, within a limited dynamic range, were approved. 1 It was also his last, nearly twenty-five years later (see page 496) . 304 The Metropolitan Opera Barrientos had a greater success with Rosina* when II Barbiere was given to celebrate the one-hundredth anniversary of its first performance on February 5. She rose to real esteem when Rigo- letto was revived on February 11 with Caruso and De Luca (Rigoletto*). Her Gil da* had dramatic nuance as well as excel- lent vocal line, and De Luca was rated a “good” Rigoletto in a time when “good” meant more than “not bad.” Neither Gatti nor Caruso thought the tenor should sing the Duke at this point of his career, but Kahn’s persistence overcame their objections. As detailed in Gatti’s Memories of the Opera, Caruso brought him the next day’s notices as proof that they had both been wrong; but the concord was not all-embracing. Henderson emphasized that “questions of style might easily be raised, and they might be readily directed at Mr. Caruso, whose advances in the realm of robustness led him at times . . . close to the robustious.” He further noted a decline in “the aerial quality of tone and elegant finish” of Caruso's early years, but he admired the “warmth” and “impassioned” conviction of his delivery. Polacco conducted, and the stage showed a new production by Vittorio Rota. A final variation in Caruso’s repertory brought a revival of Marta on December 11, for the first time since 1908. Hempel was a charming Lady Harriet,* and there was virtue in Ober’s Nancy* and De Luca’s Plunkett.* Bavagnoli provided what Hen- derson termed “a discreet accompaniment.” La Sonnambula also returned after half a dozen years’ absence, but Barrientos was no more than “tolerable” as Amina,* and Damacco a labored Elvino* in its first showing on March 3. Didur was admired for his Rodolfo. In a later performance La Sonnambula was followed by the Polovtsian Dances from Prince Igor. The absence of both Farrar and Bori provided opportunities for several singers who might not otherwise have reached Metro- politan eminence. One was Louise Edvina, borrowed from the Chicago Opera to sing Tosca* (d) with Caruso and Scotti in her debut on November 27. No longer in the bloom of youth, she performed with skilled routine, but hardly with distinction in the company of the evening. She had few further opportuni- ties, for Destinn was the Tosca on January 5, prompting Hen- derson to say: “No other Tosca since Mme. Ternina has sung the popular ‘Vissi d’arte’ as well,” thus putting a stamp on both Operas and Artists, 1915-1916 305 Destinn and the familiar terminology. 1 De Luca was an able Scarpia,* Martinelli an excellent Cavaradossi. Others utilized in the Puccini repertory were Ida Cajatti, sing- ing a “very unsteady . . . often white” Musetta* (d) at her debut in La Boheme on November 19, and Luisa Villani, of Boston, borrowed for a Butterfly* with Martinelli and Scotti on December 11. Farrar’s reappearance on February 14 produced a “fairly dull” Tosca, by the Sun’s measurement, but her follow- ers, stimulated perhaps by her new status as both a film star and the wife of Lou Tellegen, a handsome actor of the day, appeared in greater numbers than the theater could accommodate. Whatever could be said of her Carmen on February 17, it could not be called “dull.” Musically it conformed to convention, but she slapped Caruso smartly in the face during Act I, pushed one of the chorus girls roughly in Act II, and scuffled about in Act III with such vigor that she found herself in a position more singular than singable. At the end, Farrar let it be known that if Caruso didn’t care for this “realism,” the company could find another Carmen. “No,” the tenor gallantly replied, “we can pre- vent a repetition of the scene by getting another Jose.” Appar- ently conciliatory words had been spoken on both sides, for the waited repetition on February 25 went without incident. “She neither slapped Don Jose’s face,” reported the Tribune, “nor did she maul the unhappy chorus girl.” The “disillusioning vulgarity” of the earlier occasion was not missed by the Sun. The only other role sung by Farrar this season was Madame Sans-Gene on March 17. The Giordano score was now a “respectable piece of mediocrity,” in Henderson’s opinion. As an instrument of retrenchment, Bodanzky sufficed by being efficient, nonexigent, and virtually tireless. He moved steadily through a frightening assignment of scores that included not only Lohengrin (Erma Zarska of Prague made her debut as an un- remarkable Elsa*) on November 26, Parsifal, Tristan, Die Meis- tersinger, and the Ring, but also Der Rosenkavalier, Die Zauber- flote, and the Goetz novelty (see page 302 ) . In the Mozart score, Bodanzky’s work, with a cast of Kurt (Pamina*), Hempel, Mason (Papagena* ), and Sembach on December 8, was admired 1 The introduction of such designations seems wholly related to the increasing popularity of phonograph records, especially of operatic arias. 306 The Metropolitan Opera principally for precision. A direct comparison with Toscanini was drawn by Henderson when Bodanzky directed Die Meister- singer on January 7. If Bodanzky lacked the “alternating sensu- ous languor and passionate poignancy” of Toscanini, he provided “a certain exuberance of feeling,” and much more animation among the apprentices, whose “pranks seemed not to appeal to Mr. Toscanini’s delicate sense of beauty.” Hempel (Eva), Sem- bach (Walther), and Reiss (David) were all excellent; not so the “wooden and unsympathetic” Sachs of Weil. The steady upward course of the Ring productions in recent years, especially of Das Rheingold, was reflected in its presenta- tion for the first time in a quarter-century as a regular repertory work on February 18 and again on March 29. “Nothing else in the repertory,” Henderson remarked, “has been quite so admi- rably done.” Sembach as Loge, Matzenauer or Kurt as Fricka, Ober (Erda), Braun, and Reiss were elements of a smoothly functioning cast. In the Ring sequence, Gadski was the Walkure Briinnhilde, with Kurt singing the later ones. In Siegfried on Feb- ruary 17, Schumann-Heink returned after a dozen years to sing Erda “as only she can,” the Sun commented. With Germany’s borders closed to normal traffic, few singers of that nation or its allies were in movement around the world. Aside from Zarska, the only new singer to sing major roles in the Wagner repertory this season was Maude Fay of San Francisco, who had been ac- tive in Munich for eleven seasons. She was praised for her intel- ligent work as Sieglinde* on February 28, and sang occasionally the following season. Most of her subsequent career was in Chi- cago. In a summing up, Henderson found the season’s “level of merit” by no means brilliant. “What has become,” he inquired, “of ‘The Secret of Suzanne,’ ‘Versiegelt,’ ‘L’Amore dei Tre Re,’ ‘Le Donne Curiose,’ ‘L’Amore Medico,’ and ‘Julien’? . . . The answer would probably be that they did not draw. But they drew as well as some of the works which are retained. . . . L’Amore . . . need not have been shelved because of Miss Bori's illness. Mme. Villani is in the country.” After repeated promises, the Diaghilev Ballet was brought to New York this winter, and the final four weeks of the opera sub- scription was filled by its repertory. Gatti thought this an unwise Operas and Artists, 1915-1916 507 move, but apparently had no power to prevent it. When the ballet opened on April 3, much of the interest had been dissi- pated by an earlier season in the Century Theater during Janu- ary, 1 and even the long-awaited arrival of Waslav Nijinsky did not stimulate attendance. At the Metropolitan opening, the bill was Les Sylphides, Pe- trouchka, Le Spectre de la rose (with Lydia Lopokova and Alex- andre Gavriloff) and the Polovtsian Dances. Nijinsky reached New York on April 5, after internment in Budapest, but spent a week arguing money with Diaghilev before making his debut in Le Spectre on April 1 3, with Lopokova. The program was not included in the subscription series, and the house showed more than a few empty seats. Dance criticism was then a matter more of description than of evaluation, and the Sun was content with a description of Nijinsky as “a stage artist of refinement, taste, direct method and conviction.” He also danced Petrouchka on the same bill and appeared the next evening in Les Sylphides and Carnaval, and on the 1 5th in Scheherazade and the pas de deux from Sleeping Beauty. Repetitions of these roles sufficed for the two remaining weeks of Nijinsky’s appearances, though L’Apres- midi was anticipated. But Nijinsky insisted on Flora Revalles as the nymph, and Diaghilev would not allow Tchernicheva to be replaced. There was no L’ Apres-midi with Nijinsky at the Metro- politan. The inconspicuous but efficient conductor for the ballet was Ernest Ansermet. A line of critical thought worth noting was offered in a ballet review by Aldrich in the Times. In his view, ballets danced to music written for the purpose were reasonable enough; but danced “interpretations” of music written for no such purpose were quite intolerable. The fusion of purpose now considered self-justifying was still unappreciated. Although Gatti had signed a new contract the year before, ex- tending his tenure till 19x9, he was given further security until 1921 while this season was in progress. He also engaged Edward Ziegler as his assistant, beginning an association that identified Ziegler with the Metropolitan till his death in 1947 (see page 1 The Catholic Theater Movement protested the “immoralities” of L’ Apres-midi d’un faune and Scheherazade at this time, and the action was altered. 308 The Metropolitan Opera 551). Coincidentally John Brown gave up his post as business controller and was succeeded by his assistant, Ernest Henkel. With the full accounting for the Ballet Russe still to be ren- dered, the season showed a gratifying improvement over the pre- vious year’s meager profit of $1,765. The figure for 1915-16 was $81,719—3 good solid sum, but not nearly so impressive as some to come. A storied event that can hardly be omitted from any Metropoli- tan chronicle, though no opera was involved, was a benefit for the family of Granados on May 7 (see page 302 ) . Kreisler, Casals, and Paderewski played the “Geister” Trio of Beethoven (opus 70, no. 1 ) ; Casals and Kreisler played solos, each acting as the other’s accompanist; Kreisler played for McCormack, Coenraad van Bos for Julia Culp, Casals accompanied Barrientos, Paderew- ski played a group of solos, and Kreisler performed obbligatos to the singing of McCormack. 1916-1917 The growing probability that the United States would become a participant in the European war became a certainty before this operatic season ran its course. However distant the battle seemed from an audience that paid “fabulous prices” for tickets and ex- pended “a small fortune on frocks” (the Sun) to attend the opening performance — Les Pecheurs de perle s— on November 1 5, 1 it was very much a reality to Gatti and his associates charged with planning. It was to become an even greater one before the year was over. Previously conceived as an opera in which Leila was the focal role (as it had been when last given, in 1896, with Calve), The Pearl-Fishers is remembered now for its association, in this re- vival, with Caruso. The celebrated recording of “Je crois entendre encore” was, in the actuality, one of Caruso’s most notable ac- complishments, to judge from Henderson’s opinion that he sang 1 The Lexington Theater became a new site for operatic activity on November 6, when the Boston National Opera Company, again directed by Moranzoni, offered a short season of specialties including Andrea Chenier (Villani, Zenatello, Baklanoff, and Francesca Peralta), Iris (with Tamaki Miura), and L’Amore dei tre re (Villani, Mardones, Baklanoff, and Riccardo Martin) . Operas and Artists, 1916-1917 309 “with a lyric beauty recalling his earlier days.” De Luca as Zurga,* was “a master . of delicate finish,” and Hempel (Leila*) delivered “ravishing” upper tones. Handsomely produced, and well conducted by Polacco, it was heard with pleasure three times again this season, and then joined A rmide, Ariane et Barbe-bleue, and various other matters in puzzling silence. Equally puzzling, even while audible, was Iphigenia auj Tauris, given on November 25 in a version by Artur Bodanzky based on the Richard Strauss edition of 1912. He utilized the three-act compression of Strauss, somewhat shortened in the earlier acts, but extended by two excerpts from Orfeo (the D-minor lento and a chaconne) for ballet purposes in Act III. Bodanzky’s mu- sical preparation was highly commended, but not the use of a German text and a cast largely of German background which had little contact with the style appropriate for a work first produced in Paris. Kurt was an impressive Iphigenia,* and Weil did some of his best work as Orestes.* Sembach (Pylades*), Braun (Thoas*), and Marie Sundelius (First Priestess, *d) were less suited to their assignments. Monroe J. Hewlett, one of the first American scenic designers to see his work on the Metropolitan stage, provided an excellent decor, but it did not survive for a second season. A new work from the house of Ricordi bore the name of Tito Ricordi himself, as adapter of a D’Annunzio text, when Ric- cardo Zandonai’s Francesca da Rimini was offered on Decem- ber 22. Well orchestrated, as virtually every post-Wagner score has been, it “shot its bolt” in the first act, Henderson observed, with little in reserve for the third-act climax. Krehbiel likened it to L’Amore , but said that it lacked Montemezzi’s individual- ity. He also thought Alda’s Francesca* an “inadequate concep- tion beyond her histrionic abilities.” Musically the role was too heavy for her voice. Martinelli (Paolo* ) and Amato (Giovanni*) performed ably. Queenie Smith, a later favorite of the musical- comedy stage, appeared as a Maid of Honor. Polacco conducted. After a lapse of four seasons, Gatti offered another hearing to an American opera on March 8, when The Canterbury Pilgrims by Reginald de Koven and Percy Mackaye was given under Bodanzky’s direction. Some opinion admired Mackaye’s text and some found virtue in De Koven’s music, but no one thought the ^ 10 The Metropolitan Opera latter's operetta mannerisms appropriate to the former’s literary manner. Any temptation to charity was negated bv the mangled delivery of the English text by Sembach (Chaucer ), C)ber (Wife of Bath*), Mason (Prioress*), and Ruysdael (Miller ). Virtue did not always go by nationality, for Scmbach’s words came out more clearly than those sung by his American col- leagues. James Fox, scenic artist for the company, shared credit for the production with Homer Emens. Richard Ordynski di- rected the stage action. At that. The Canterbury Pilgrims had six performances, one more than Iphigenia auf Tauris. Mozart had greater honor in this season than in any earlier one directed by Gatti, with Die Zauberflote retained in the repertory and LeNozze di Figaro revived after eight years’ silence. Garrison sang the Queen of the Night* fluently on November zo, when Hempel was ill, the other principals being the same as the previ- ous year, including Urlus as a “depressing” Tamino (the Sun). From Mahler’s notable Figaro cast there remained Farrar (Cherubino) and Didur, now singing Almaviva, when the Mo- zartian masterpiece was revived on January 24. The new Figaro,* and a delightful one, was De Luca. His performance and the spirited Susanna* of Hempel alone gave real pleasure, for Mat zenauer was a stolid Countess,* whose voice required transposi- tion of some music, Farrar was no longer the picturesque Ghent bino she had been, and she was now a less conscientious singer of Mozart’s music. Neither work was pursued with much determina tion by Gatti, for Figaro had only four performances this and the next season, while Die Zauberflote lapsed at the end of the cur- rent one. Fidelio, under Bodanzky, had three performances this season, in the version of Mahler and with largely the cast of 1 Iertz: Kurt, Sembach, Goritz, and Braun (Rocco) were familiar figures in the performance of December 9. Mason sang Marzellina* well, and Kurt was a more convincing Leonore than previously, if no more successful with “Abscheulicher" than the average soprano. When the curtain fell on the third performance, on January 19, it marked the last Fidelio New York was to hear for ton seasons. In a year showing fewer new personalities than any, per- haps, in previous Metropolitan history, the introduction of Claudia Muzio on December 4 should have been more eventful Operas and Artists , lgi 6-1 917 311 than it was. Krehbiel thought her as fine a new singer as any the company had acquired since Bori; Aldrich added to his descrip- tion of her as “young and beautiful” a characterization of her voice as “fresh and agreeable” and noted that she used it “artisti- cally.” Henderson heard “a good lyric soprano, full and vibrant in quality . . . but prone to become shrill when pinched.” With her in Tosca 1 were Caruso (his first Cavaradossi in several years) and Scotti. Muzio was well received by an audience that included many professional musicians who remembered her father as a stage manager for Grau, and Claudia as a child of eight lurking in the wings. At twenty-two plus, Muzio was not yet the artist she later be- came, and a succession of roles which included Manon* in Manon Lescaut on December 9, Nedda* in I Pagliacci on De- cember 15, Leonora* in II Trovatore on December 18, and Aida* on January 27 was hardly to her advantage. Eventually Hender- son spoke favorably of her “invaluable power to interest an audi- ence” and her “fine and communicative enthusiasm,” but the fact is plain that Muzio did not take the press by storm. Thanks to the generosity of the Chicago company, which per- mitted the use of its scenery, Thais was added to the Metropoli- tan repertory on February 16. Farrar sang much of the music elo- quently, if lacking the Garden forcefulness in action, but neither Amato (Athenael* ) nor Botta (Nicias* ) gave to their roles what had been admired in Renaud and Dalmores. A ballet omitted in the Manhattan presentation was included. The assumption that performers do not read what is written about them was proved untrue, at least in so far as Farrar’s costuming was con- cerned. The reports of the first performance having suggested that Farrar was unduly conservative in dress, she appeared the next time in what the Sun described as “entirely . . . skirt. From the waist up it is exclusively Miss Farrar and two small groups of jewels . . . inconspicuous, but essentially located.” Another variation in customary repertory was provided by a revival of L’Elisir d’amore on December 30, with Caruso as Nemorino for the first time since 1904, Hempel (Adina*), and 1 Aside from Cavalieri, who sang the role in an emergency, Muzio was the first Italian Tosca in the Metropolitan succession of Ternina, Eames, Farrar, Fremstad, Destinn, Edvina, and so on. 312 The Metropolitan Opera Scotti. The tenor’s delivery of “Una furtiva lagrima.” roused a storm of cries for an encore, but he outlasted the applause, re- suming with the interpolated words “To repeat is not allowable.” Hempel sparkled as Adina, and Scotti was a delightful Belcore. Caruso and L’Elisir were Metropolitan favorites for the five years to come, to the day when the first symptoms of Caruso’s fatal illness showed themselves in Brooklyn in L’Elisir, in 1920. Gen- naro Papi, who had previously been an assistant conductor, was in charge of the Donizetti score. Barrientos replaced Hempel as Adina* on February 1 5, acting with “gayety, ease and grace,” said the Sun, and singing stylishly. She was also seen in a revival of Lahne, with rather less content, on March 24. The Sembrich kind of ornamental singing was still remembered, to Barrientos’s disadvantage, though she sang the first-act duet with Delaunois (Mallika*) very well. Martinelli (Gerald*), Rothier (Nilikan- tha*) and De Luca (Frederic*), were in the cast. The scenic production by James Fox and Polacco’s conducting were both praised. The year’s performances of Wagner were even less eventful than those of the preceding season, when Bodanzky, at least, had given a fresh accent to the familiar casts. Of interest was the first appearance of the American mezzo Kathleen Howard as Magdalene* on January 17, a part she sang often in the future with musical effect and dramatic charm, and, on March 19, the long-awaited Hans Sachs* of Clarence Whitehill. The time he had spent in preparing the role was rewarded by Krehbiel’s enthusiastic “Long may Clarence Whitehill sing . . . Hans Sachs . as he sang . . . last night.” Henderson’s admiration for “the deep undercurrent of poetic imagination” in the crea- tion foreshadowed the day when it would be compared, without disadvantage, to the Metropolitan’s Father Sachs of all, Emil Fischer. Urlus, Gadski, Howard, and Reiss were in the cast of this Meistersinger. Bodanzky conducted all the Wagner works as in the previous season, though he was spelled by Richard Hageman for some smaller chores, such as Hansel und Gretel on Christmas Day. This departed from recent Metropolitan custom (dating from Humperdinck’s visit in 1910) by which Albert Reiss, the tenor, sang the Witch, by offering Homer in the part. Raymonde Operas and Artists, 191 6-1 917 313 Delaunois (Hansel*) and Garrison (Gretel*) made a charming new brother and sister, and there were debuts in the smaller roles of the Sandman* by Marie Tiffany and the Dewman* by Odette Le Fontenay. A customary Ring cycle began on Febru- ary 1 with Gadski and Kurt as Briinnhildes. When Siegfried was repeated on March 29, the Tribune reported: “Mr. Bodanzky made several cuts in the interminable score which shortened the performance by almost half an hour.” Needless to say, this was not written by Krehbiel, the pioneering Wagnerite, but by an assistant. The rising pitch of international emotion was reflected at the Metropolitan during a performance of Mme Sans-Gene on March 2. Amid cursory attention to Farrar and Amato, the ap- pearance on stage of the French flag and the singing of La Mar- seillaise brought the audience to its feet. News that war had been declared came on April 6, Good Friday, midway in a perform- ance of Parsifal. Earlier events of the week had prepared the German members of the cast for the inevitable; the blow fell heavily none the less. Die Meistersinger and Tristan were given as scheduled during the remaining week of the season. In the last of these, on April 13, the Metropolitan career of Johanna Gadski came to a certain, if unofficial, end. She was allowed to announce her “retirement,” though the public was well aware of her marriage ties to Captain Hans Tauscher, a re- serve officer in the German army who represented the Krupp and other munitions firms in the United States. He was accused of plotting to blow up the Welland Canal in 1916, but acquitted. Gadski was also in disfavor because her home had been the scene of a jubilant party after the sinking of the Lusitania (1915). Nevertheless, it is hard to credit Henderson’s view in the Sun that Gadski’s engagement was terminated because of “the de- terioration of Mme. Gadski’s voice and art.” His further allega- tion that she was merely “an honest, hard-working . so- prano,” who has had “much admiration from easy going opera patrons,” did him no honor. Her farewell Tristan was marked by “a generous good-bye” and praise for the artistic Kurvenal* of Whitehill. With the costly tour of the Diaghilev Ballet not yet counted against Metropolitan earnings, Gatti’s profit balance rose to new 314 The Metropolitan Opera eminence this year: $190,000. As noted elsewhere, amounts other than those received at the box office were contributory to this (see page 19). They were more than little bits, and all helped. 1917-1918 By common measurement, Gatti was pretty much the autocrat of Metropolitan affairs in this period, but there are several sug- gestions that he was no more than a limited monarch, subject to suasion and suggestion of his board— subject, in the final ex- tremity, to direct order. Certainly he had not wanted to present Caruso in Rigoletto (see page 304) or share his season with the Diaghilev Ballet Russe. These were relatively minor matters, however, not worthy of being made issues. Such, however, was not the abandonment of the German repertory in the first year of our participation in World War I. Gatti’s outspoken objection is clear from his Memoirs , but he accepted the decision of the board when it was conveyed to him, in the interest of keep- ing his job, if in no other. Examination of the facts suggests that it was a decision hastily arrived at, and not wholly for the reasons given to the public. As late as September 1 5, the Sun, in an editorial, regarded the pro- posed action as “indeed a strange rumor.” To discriminate against Bach, Beethoven, Wagner, and Brahms was pointless: “They belong to the world as do Shakespeare and Dante.” In the end the press condemned the timidity of the board and sympathized with Gatti, who had to find— at barely more than a week’s notice— a way of replacing the normal forty to forty-five performances of works in German. No doubt he had made some tentative plans against an emergency, but hardly to substitute for one performance in every three. The public was advised, a week before the opening on No- vember 12, that the works were dropped “lest Germany should make capital of their continued appearance to convince the Ger- man people that this nation was not heart and soul in the war.” In England, at closer quarters, where such propaganda might have counted for more, Beecham gave Mozart and Wagner (in English) in the midst of Zeppelin raids, and the French listened Operas and Artists, u)iy~u)i 8 415 to Schubert while cursing the shells that dropped from the mouth of Big Bertha. A secondary action, by which Kurt, Ober, Sembach, Braun, and Goritz were summarily dismissed from the company, sug- gests that backstage harmony was actually the issue at stake. Goritz, certainly, was outspoken in his Germanic fervor, and when Ober sued for $t;o.ooo (she added to $24,000 due on her contract as much again for the expense and inconvenience of coming to this country), the Metropolitan’s attorneys cited her “intense hatred” of the United States as a reason for breaking her contract. In any case, only Sembach was re-engaged after the war. A silent sufferer was Olive h'remstad, who was described in the Sun of November to as the “reengaged Mine, Frcmstad." She did not return during this season, or ever. The heavy burden the season placed on Caruso and Farrar may be surmised from the number and scope of their appearances. The latter, at least, considered this a harmful expedient that might have been avoided, she recalled to me in conversation, had Gatti followed her suggestion that he assemble Garden, Muratore. Duhnores, and several other “available” 1 artists to do Louise, l,e Jongleur, Mourn Vanrui, Pelleds, Wert her, and a few others half a dozen times each, thus filling the Wagner vacuum. Gatti’s reply, as she remembers, was that it was too expensive and the board would not agree. lie did, however, undertake to repair some weaknesses in the French and the Italian repertory performances by engaging Pierre Monteux to conduct the former, and Roberto Moranzoni for the latter (Folacco was gone, soon to reappear in Chicago). As with Italian conductors before and after, Moranzoni was in- troduced with Aida on November 12. The Sun took note of the simultaneous opening of the Horse Show, reporting "throngs of people distinguished in the ceremonial life of the city” in both places, Henderson also reported the customary enthusiasm for Caruso, though he “probably never sang ‘Celeste Aula’ so badly before.” In the view of the same writer. Mu/m was a “mediocre” Aida, hut Jose Mardones made an impressive debut as the 1 By her recollection, though they seem to have been busy enough in Chicago (seepage 310). 316 The Metropolitan Opera Priest* (d), and Moranzoni conducted soundly. The curtain was raised after the triumphal scene, and the audience joined in the singing of the national anthem. In place of the customary second-night Wagner, Boris was given on November 14, with Papi, a long downward step from Toscanini and Polacco, conducting. The Sun did not hear the “incisive accent” the music required. Papi was also the con- ductor of the next night’s Elisir d’amore (Caruso and Hem pel) , prompting Henderson to describe him derisively as a conductor “who is held in high esteem in official circles” but in none other. Papi served the next night for Puccini, conducting a Bohdme with McCormack as Rodolfo singing his first Metropolitan opera since Natoma in 1911. In the intervening years he had begun his long, successful career as a concert favorite, and the critical scru- tiny was keener than it had been before. Aldrich doubted that McCormack was a Puccini tenor, but admired the finish of his singing, “of its kind unsurpassable.” I-Ienderson thought his style “excellently suited” to Rodolfo, and commended Alda for a “de- cided improvement” in her Mimi. The Musctta* was Ruth Miller, rather slender of voice. “Well planned,” “musicianly,” and “finely wrought” were some of the terms applied by Henderson to the revival of Faust by which Pierre Monteux introduced himself on November 18. (How to give the measure of a conductor’s contribution to an opera performance while not giving cause to deplore his depar- ture was a delicate problem in critical adjustment. ) Praise was high for Farrar’s Marguerite and the well-schooled Thomas Chalmers made his debut as Valentin* (d) in a cast with Marti- nelli and Rothier. The settings, the first of many to be designed by Joseph Urban, were commended as “of great beauty, and of such design as to lend themselves to a complete shattering of the conventional stage business.” Undoubtedly they looked better in 1917 than when Faust was last given in 1951 amid a dusty rem- nant of the same d£cor. For that matter, the new Tosca produc- tion by Mario Sala seen on November 19 has served the house ever since, freshened (if not improved) by repainting. . muddled thinking that determined the inclusion or exclu- sion of works written between the Rhine and the Volga per- mitted Flotow’s Marta on November 21 and Mozart’s Nozze di Operas and Artists , 1 91 7-1 918 317 Figaro on December 22, both sung in Italian, and Liszt’s St Elisa- beth on January 3, in English, though all the composers, by na- tionality, were as much “enemies” as the interdicted Wagner. Whether as oratorio (its original form) or opera, Liszt’s score was patently not dramatic, the English text by Constance Bache a meager contribution to attentive listening. Florence Easton’s singing of St. Elisabeth* gave her place “in the first rank of Metropolitan stars,” said Aldrich, not alone for intelligent vocali- zation but also for her uniquely distinct English enunciation. Whitehill (Ludwig*), Matzenauer (Landgravine Sophie*), and Ruysdael (a Hungarian Magnate*) worked to little avail against a singularly unyielding score. The production was by Urban, and Bodanzky conducted. On the whole, the absorbing innovations of this season were those directed by Monteux: Henri Rabaud’s Marouf on De- cember 19 and the endlessly delightful Le Coq d’or of Rimsky- Korsakov on March 6. Henderson found “an extraordinary amount of character, atmosphere and incidental significance” in Rabaud’s score, and the qualified cast of De Luca (Marouf*), Alda (Princess*), Chalmers (Ali*), and Rothier (Sultan*) left few opportunities unexploited. Ernest Gros designed the scenery. Measured words hardly sufficed for Le Coq d’or, one of the great productions of the whole Gatti period, with its imaginative decor by Willy Pogany, its marshaling of vocal and mime talent to fill the ingenious Fokine plan of double casting, and, of course, the insinuating leadership of Monteux. To be sure, Coq d’or did not fit into any convenient operatic category, which induced some critical hairsplitting, but the final judgment accorded with Hen- derson’s conclusion: “Its influence on the listener is sure, while almost unnoticed.” Barrientos sang the Queen’s* music delight- fully, and Galli performed the actions endearingly, with Didur a sonorous King* to hear, Adolf Bolm an amusing one to watch. Braslau sang Amelia,* danced by Queenie Smith, and Ruysdael was the voice of the General,* acted by Bartik. An uncommonly apt performance of the Astrologer* by Rafael Diaz left a durable place in Metropolitan lore for this light tenor, who sang many other roles in a longish career (he made his debut as Nicias* in Thais on January 5 ) , but none so creditably. Thirty-odd perform- ances in the next half-dozen seasons gave public endorsement to 318 The Metropolitan Opera Le Cocf d’or as Gatti's happiest venture since L’Amore and Der Rosenkavdlier. L ’ Amor e returned in gala style on March 14, with Muzio as Fiora* and Caruso as Avito,* neither matching the suitability of Bori or Ferrari-Fontana. The soprano persisted in the part, over- coming a physique not considered suitable for the childish hero- ine, but Caruso gave up after three further performances. Marti- nelli was his replacement on April 6, and sang it many times thereafter. Moranzoni’s conducting was admirably energetic, and the cast had a sturdy Archibald 0* when Mardones appeared on March 22. As a further departure from the days when “Italian singers would not leam new parts,” Caruso added Flamen* in Mas- cagni’s Lodoletta and Jean of Leyden in Le Prophete, as well as Avito, to his repertory this season, while singing an almost end- less succession of Nemorino, Rhadames, Samson, and so on. The Mascagni pastorale, at its hearing on January 12, was likened to his L’Amico Fritz , with Caruso superb in the melodic matter and Farrar (Lodoletta*), Amato (Gianetto*), and Didur (An- tonio*) well liked. Easton had the title role on January 26. While speculating that “it ought to please,” Henderson gave the full measure of its worth by saying: “There is not a wearisome moment in the vocal portions, nor is there a stirring one.” In the same writer’s opinion, Caruso’s John of Leyden* was “one of his most artistic achievements,” when the Meyerbeer score was given in Italian on February 7. Matzenauer was a noble Fides* and Muzio a handsome Bertha,* but the presumptively all-star cast fell off badly from Didur (Alberthal*) and Mardones (Zach- arias* ) to Bloch, Schlegel, and D’Angelo. Further explorations of the past included revivals of I Puritani for Barrientos on February 18 and La Fille du regiment for Hempel on December 17. The Spanish soprano’s Elvira* was neatly sung, as was the Lord Arthur* of her countryman Hipolito Lazaro. De Luca’s Sir Richard* and Mardones’s Sir George* were on the order of acceptable, but the restless Gatti decided that the public had had enough of this after three performances. The martial suggestions of Donizetti were welcomed in wartime (as Johnson remembered twenty-five years later), and the able cast of Scotti (Sulpizio*), Carpi (Tonio*), and Mattfeld Operas and Artists, 1917-1918 319 (Marchioness*) gave handsome support to the bright vocaliza- tion of Hempel. The language of this production was Italian, as was the conducting of Papi. Though Gatti had good reason to be discouraged with the use made by American composers of the opportunities tendered to them, he continued his hospitality with the sponsorship of two short works. Certainly there was no bias to one school or another in the election of Charles Wakefield Cadman’s Shanewis to be sung, and Henry F. Gilbert’s Dance in the Place Congo to be mimed. At the first performance, on March 23, they were fol- lowed by L’Oracolo, thus offering a prismatic sequence of red man, black man, and yellow man. In none was beauty as much as skin-deep, though some considered Gilbert’s score (a concert piece adapted by Bartik for ballet) more original than most pre- viously heard in the Metropolitan. Shanewis (with Braslau as Shanewis* and Althouse as Lionel*) had the melodic charm of Cadman’s “At Dawning” and “From the Land of the Sky-Blue Waters,” but not much that was theatrically absorbing. Norman Bel Geddes designed the Cadman sets, Livingston Platt those for the ballet. Both were conducted by Moranzoni. By measurement of years of service, Florence Easton was the important artist to begin a Metropolitan career this season, even though she had some years of drought to survive before the Wag- nerian spring flowed again. As Santuzza* in Cavalleria on De- cember 7, she was welcomed by Henderson as a singer with “a voice of beauty and no inconsiderable power,” who gave “emo- tional value and theatrical picturesqueness” to the performance. As Ah-Yoe* in L’Oracolo on December 22, in St. Elisabeth and Lodoletta , 1 even as Nedda in the first act of Pagliacci at a benefit on March 21, Easton was complimented for assurance, musician- ship, and intelligence. A singer subsequently prominent in the German repertory appeared for the first time in Samson on No- vember 23, when Julia Claussen sang Dalila* to Caruso’s Sam- 1 This Monday-night subscription performance occurred on Tuesday, in compliance with an order by the Federal Fuel Administrator that theaters should be dark one night a week. Broadway agreed on Tuesday. By the next week it was agreed that the Metropolitan could save as much fuel on a dark Tuesday as on a dark Monday, and the opera resumed its traditional pattern. 320 The Metropolitan Opera son. Henderson’s description of her as “entirely creditable and conventional” would be apt for anything she did later. Monteux conducted with “verve and point,” and the ever growing “dignity and virility” of Caruso’s Samson were commended, as was White- hill’s High Priest.* McCormack’s ability as a singer of Mozart was not utilized at any time in his Metropolitan career, his appearances of this year being exclusively in Puccini— Rodolfo, Pinkerton, and Cavara- dossi. Protestations that Don Giovanni had to be avoided for lack of a cast seem pointless when one imagines the results that could have been achieved by Scotti, De Luca (Leporello), McCormack, Easton (Donna Anna), Hempel (Elvira), and Farrar (Zerlina)— one of the best casts the Metropolitan never presented! Of other tenors, the roster showed two new ones: Morgan Kingston, who appeared first in II T r overt ore on Decem- ber 1, and Hipolito Lazaro, who won some acclaim for daring a high D at the end of the second-act duet when he made his debut as the Duke* (d) in Rigoletto on January 31. On February 8, as Cavaradossi,* Lazaro was judged by Henderson to have “one of the best tenor voices” heard in recent years. He later sang Turiddu in Cavalleria and Lord Arthur in I Puritani (see page 3i8). The newly organized Chicago Opera Association (direction by Campanini, financing largely by the Harold McCormicks) challenged direct competition with the Metropolitan when it opened a lengthy season at the Lexington Theater on January 23 with Garden in Monna Vanna (Charlier conducting) . Although Gatti was fond of contending that Europe was bare of singers he could use, Campanini introduced two whom the Metropolitan could have used at any time— Rosa Raisa and Amelita Galli- Curci. Of Raisa’s debut in The Jewels of the Madonna on Janu- ary 24, Henderson said: “Her voice is full and rich and of large power . so genuinely beautiful that it cannot fail to give pleasure.” The Rafaele was her husband, Giacomo Rimini, sing- ing with “a light, dry voice.” She also appeared as Santuzza on February 2, and they sang together in Mascagni’s Isabeau on February 13, she in the title role, he as her father. Raisa was Operas and Artists, 1917-1918 321 sightly enough in this adaptation of the Lady Godiva legend, and sang superbly the indifferent music provided by Mascagni. The measured praise that sufficed for Raisa’s excellence could hardly do for Galli-Curci’s uniqueness. Not since Tetrazzini— the last time it had been “not since Melba”— had this special kind of audible phenomenon come to New York, and the re- sponse was in kind. Henderson did not temporize in describing her work as Dinorah on January 28: “She is an artist of brilliant abilities. Her voice is singularly smooth, deep colored and flexible. It is a pure flute voice . . . capable of much warm and tender expression.” The “Shadow Song” provoked twenty-four recalls, and the curtain calls at the end ran close to sixty. Rimini, Huber- deau, and Octava Dua were in the cast, conducted by Campanini. She was heard five times later, each performance drawing more patrons than the theater could hold. In addition to a second Dinorah, she sang Lucia on January 31, with Juan Nadal as Edgardo; Gilda in R igoletto on February 9, with the same tenor and Stracciari, a far finer baritone than he had been a decade be- fore; Rosina in II Barbiere on the 13th; and Violetta, with Nadal and Stracciari, on the 1 5th. Her Gilda was a dramatic disappoint- ment, but all the roles were beautifully vocalized, with an ap- propriate climax in a Violetta that Henderson described as “sur- passingly beautiful . . . with rare beauty of tone and delicacy of feeling” and “deeper emotional power” than anticipated. To Aldrich, Galli-Curci represented “the moral value of art un- spoiled,” in the midst of a world at war. This being her farewell for the year, New Yorkers to the number of 10,000 (by police estimate) crowded the vicinity of a theater that held less than 3,000. A rainy night and snarled traffic found many who came in cars trudging through mud lest they miss “A hi fors e lui.” At the final curtain, the cheering audience would not leave until the soprano appeared close to midnight to sing “Home, Sweet Home.” Of necessity, the press queried Galli-Curci on approaches by the Metropolitan. She diplomatically contended that she had been sent directly to Campanini from Italy. Gatti’s Memories of the Opera offers nothing relevant to the stories that he had heard her in 1916 and decided that she would not do. More recently I 322 The Metropolitan Opera only^tt inclinato t0 riSSS^-‘toas vo- U no .ongertt C m “ “0^^ T° n ' S ^ -“rssr e k Gardra m P esj (with ^fred M ° h “ V ™™ with TWii hnoff, a‘„d t^luST^L^ <“"*"* ** mired as Manon in W l ™ a F Genevieve Vix was ad- for Muratore’s “impassioned m ^ nUaTy 3 °’ with s P eciaI P ra ise tragic” Des Grie JnT ' § racefuI > and in the end, pleted the excellent cast* and Huberdeau c °m- a%SS&S2r ’T^ Were 0f sma » ™* Heniy Gordon, and Forresf Lamon/m d Svil'T!' F,tZiU ’ < ? ma ™ LeSauteriot on Febmarv ,7 ITo . Lazzan COnduc ted his and Dufranne Neither was iieT rT Mann ^ Dalmorfei, ^4™XnIt£^ ^ ™ y tr pany contin “ d * &*** * tho7ftet4a“i?d?ff int? $ ^T to hiS «* «*»«, $300,000 incurred b/thp TV 7 d the next year the loss of hL s „oiat““ lte y d tt' ? lag r ! al]et PubM y. Kahn and of the bate to^vaWv Z! thCm “ "S“™” the cost against the account’of the Meteopolta'"' 6 ”' *° ^ 19l8~19lg musical, the Sun could wellld^nt^GatH 17 °“ ^ 1°^ ^ a prophet” in arranm™ f u •„ T . bty Gattl as Surel y the son of Amid ceremonies and § iubilf ,° nfica * 10n of the genius of France. “ d inbrlatron, the musical performance of Operas and Artists, 1918-1919 323 Caruso, Homer, and Robert Coir/.inou (High Priest, *d) was on the dull side, till Monteux and the ballet stirred cheers. With or without hostilities, the demand for swift restoration of Wagner and other works with German texts was negligible. The sounds associated with the “arrogant” Hun and the “beast” who ravaged Belgium were scorned even in the concert hall, where liecler were welcome, if at all, only in English. In the curi- ous circumstances that prevailed, Ohcrtm was accepted on De- cember 2S because it was writ ten for an English text, though the composer’s name was, after all, Carl Maria von Weber. The splendid overture, such vocal high spots as "Ozean, du Vngelwuer," and the airs of It non gave to the evening a musical luster that Urban's artful designs complimented admirably. With Martinelli as Huon* and the newly acclaimed Rosa Ponselb as Re/ia, ■’ Oheron mustered a variety of attractions that kept it in the repertory for three seasons. To be sure, the young Ponsellc was not the vocal trumpet needed to sound the full flourish of "Ocean, thou mighty monster." but her effort aroused llunc* ker's ' "hearty admiration" anti Henderson’s "commiseration.” Bodanzhy introduced a new custom by providing recitatives made from Weberian motives, and by skillful reduction of the original twenty one tableaus to seven earned Hmieker's praise as "that raia avis, a nmsiciunly conductor with temperament.” Of the east, Marie Stmdclius earned special praise for exquisite sing- ingot the Mermaid's song. Althou.se was O heron.* Oatti's confidence in the young American soprano from vaude- ville (the first program identified her as Poueelle) was manifest not only in his putting her forward on a stage with Caruso, I)e Luca, and Mardoueson November 13, but in his depending upon her for the exacting role of Leonora* in a revival of La i'orza del destimi, which had not been heard in New York since an Acad- emy season of 1SS2, Recognition of the sumptuous voice was im- mediate, "It is vocal gold," wrote Huueker, "dark, rich, and due tile," Henderson regarded with some skepticism the statement that she had never sung in opera before; if so, he said "she must have been horn with a ready made routine." hi any ease, she had "one of the most voluptuous dramatic soprano voices” ever heard, 1 Hr served as critic of the Times (luring the war service of Aldrich. 324 The Metropolitan Opera and, Henderson added, “doubtless some day Miss Poncelle will learn how to sing.” Doubtless, too, her coming relieved Gatti of some liability for not presenting Raisa or Galli-Curci. Further consideration of Forza — “welcome despite its curious short- comings,” said Henderson— or the cast of Caruso (Alvaro*), De Luca (Don Carlos*), and Mardones (Abbott*) was understand- ably subordinate. Alice Gentle, as Preziosilla* (d) made an in- conspicuous debut. Aside from Rezia in Oberon , Ponselle’s only other role came in an American novelty. She sang Carmelita* when Joseph Breil’s The Legend was given on March 12. The composer’s fame as writer of the incidental music for D. W. Griffith’s The Birth of a Nation and Intolerance did not count for much in the opera house, though such a tune as his The Perfect Song (long associ- ated with the Amos n’ Andy radio program) would have helped. Also new on this bill was The Temple Dancer, by John Adams Hugo, with Easton (the Temple Dancer*) and Kingston (a Temple Guard*). The total, in Henderson’s opinion, was “some sad moments” for advocates of opera in English. Norman Bel Geddes was the designer for The Legend, James Fox for The Temple Dancer. Shanewis followed, thus being the first Ameri- can work to be heard in a second season. The excitement that attended a Puccini premiere was hardly mitigated on December 14 by the division of the evening into a three-part triptych rather than a full-length work, for the public had the pleasure of hearing Easton, Muzio, and Farrar, plus nu- merous male singers, in new roles, and the press had three prob- lems to consider rather than one. Least enthusiastic about the prospect was Gatti, who later wrote that he “never quite could understand” the juxtaposition of Gianni Schicchi, II Tabarro, and Suor Angelica, and frankly deplored the need for putting three prima donnas to work on the same evening. Ironically, the hardest to do won the most enthusiastic re- sponse and the most enduring popularity. Henderson’s words for Gianni Schicchi were “uproarious farce,” tinged with admira- tion for an orchestral style that suggested Puccini’s study of the all-but-forgotten F alstaff. Krehbiel concurred that “uproariously funny” was the proper description, with warm enthusiasm for Easton’s Lauretta,* De Luca’s Gianni Schicchi,* Giulio Crimi’s Operas and Artists, lgi 8-1 gig 325 Rinuccio,* and Didur’s Simone.* Moranzoni had studied the work with Puccini during the summer and smoothed its en- semble problems with a knowing hand. Toward the other pieces the critical attitude was no less uni- form, but far less affirmative. II Tabarro was skillful melodrama without sufficient musical power to be interesting, despite a strong cast of Muzio (Giorgetta*), Crimi (Luigi*), and Luigi Montesanto (Michele*). Suor Angelica, said Henderson, was “well composed . . . but without sustained utterance” for the voices of Farrar (Suor Angelica*), Perini (La Principessa*), and Sundelius (La Zelatrice*). Henderson nevertheless saw a bind- ing theme in the three works (mad love, a retreat from the world, and a gibe at human greed ) , and thought it would be “false” for one to be separated from the others. That, however, is exactly how the one of superior merit has survived. The momentary trend to French works as novelties ventured nothing more controversial than Leroux’s La Reine Fiammette (a Garden creation of 1903) on January 24 and the faded Mireille of Gounod on February 28. Thanks to what the Sun called “the blazing brush” of Boris Anisfeld, sixteenth-century Bologna was impressively invoked on Leroux’s behalf, but the music Farrar had to sing as Orlanda* was, in Henderson’s recol- lection of Suor Angelica, a “leap from the pan to the fire, and it is such a feeble fire.” Lazaro (Danielo*) and Rothier (Cardinal*) did as well as circumstances allowed, and Mary Ellis, who had been barely noticed at her debut in Suor Angelica, won praise for the minor parts of Viola* and Angioletta.* The conductor was Monteux, who also directed Mireille. This had its share of de- signing interest also, for the sketches were made by the long- retired Victor Maurel, a product of its Provencal setting, who had been a student of painting before turning to the stage. Bar- rientos sang Mireille* agreeably, with Charles Hackett as Vin- cent.* It vanished after three repetitions. Far more durable, and one of the ventures longest associated with Monteux, was the production of Stravinsky’s Petrouchka on February 6. The ensemble could not compare with that of the Diaghilev company, but some preferred Galli’s Ballerina* to Lopokova’s, and Adolf Bolm’s Petrouchka* ranked with the best. Bonfiglio was the Moor,* Bartik the Magician.* John Wen- 326 The Metropolitan Opera ger’s setting was apt, and Monteux's conducting of Stravinsky was praised for neither the first nor the last time. A final novelty, for Hempel, was the Ricci brothers' Crispino e la Comare, not considered Metropolitan fare even in simpler days. Her singing of Annetta* was described as “fluent, lumi- nous and elegant” by Henderson at its first performance on January 18. Scotti was Crispino,* with Braslau as La Comare.* For all the glitter of the interpolated Carnival of Venice, Hempel and the work were seen only twice again. In its conventional aspects the season differed little from the wartime ones immediately preceding. Farrar and Caruso, Hem- pel and Muzio, Barrientos and Scotti were balance wheels of the mechanism. Boris was retained, but not Prince Igor. Other exceptions to the customary were Marouf and Le Coq d’or, L’Amore and the recently revived he Prophete. Among new singers of ephemeral careers were Mary Mellish, Xenia* in Boris on November 25 (with Papi a “notably uneven” conductor in the Sun’s judgment), and Margaret Romaine, who made a debut in La Boheme as Musetta* (d) on the following night, as did Luigi Montesanto (Marcello*). Much more con- sequential was the American tenor first called Carlo Hackett at his debut as Almaviva* (d) in II Barbiere on January 31. When Henderson heard him as Alfredo* in La Traviata on February 6, he commended his “mastery of mezza voce,” and vowed that he sang “diminuendi with the skill of Bond.” When he sang the Duke* in Rigoletto on February 14, Hackett reverted to calling himself Charles, and so he remained through an admirable ca- reer. Also warmly approved in a brief venture into opera was the baritone Reinald Werrenrath, whose Silvio* in Pagliacci on February 19 was characterized by Henderson as “in respect of style, diction, phrasing and beauty of expression” the best he had ever heard. To be sure, voices such as Werrenrath’s were rarely assigned to parts such as Silvio, but the credit stood. Werrenrath was also heard pleasurably as Valentin* in Faust on March 26. He devoted three years to a Metropolitan career, but operatic routine was never his forte so much as “Danny Deever,” “Sylvia,” and other morsels of the concert stage. Somewhat similar was McCormack, who reappeared as Pinkerton on December 26. Operas and Artists , 1918-1919 327 “Inconceivable as a whale boat officer,” said Henderson, “he sings the music surpassingly well.” Opportunity was available on several occasions to praise the steady development of Mabel Garrison, whose Lucia,* the Queen in Le Coq d’or, and Gilda in Rigoletto all honored the “pluck and perseverance” the Sun valued in her equipment. At another extreme of honor was the tribute paid to Caruso on March 22 to commemorate the twenty-fifth anniversary of his operatic debut at the Teatro Bellini in Naples in 1894. He was both host and guest, entertaining a considerable audience (which paid a large sum into the Emergency Fund of the Metropolitan Opera Com- pany) with excerpts from L’Elisir d’amore, I Pagliacci, and Le Prophete, and receiving words of praise from Otto Kahn, as well as gifts from the management, his fellow artists, and the or- chestra. He was also scheduled to receive the flag of the city of New York from His Honor Mayor John Hylan, but the Mayor’s secretary, Grover Whalen, let it be known that the Mayor would not participate if James M. Beck, a political antagonist, took part in the ceremonies. Beck withdrew, with some sharp anti-Hylan words, and the presentation was made by Police Commissioner Enright. Lacking Parsifal , Good Friday was observed in a manner both sacred and profane: Gounod’s Gallia in the afternoon, directed by Setti, followed by Palestrina’s Missa Brevis and Rossini’s Stabat Mater (with Ponselle, Hackett, Matzenauer, and Mar- dones): L’A more dei tre re was the evening attraction, with Easton, Martinelli, and Didur. Whatever the financial outcome of the previous season, the underwriters of the Chicago Opera Association deemed a return visit to the Lexington Theater amusing if not profitable, and provocative of satisfying comparisons if nothing else. Although Ra'isa was absent, Galli-Curci and Garden were not, and the list of roles with which the latter was identified added another when she appeared in the opening night Gismonda, on Janu- ary 27. Another creation of Fevrier, the composer of Monna Vanna, it had its interest while Garden was on stage, which was considerably but not quite enough. Charles Fontaine made his debut as Almerio, Alfred Maguenat was Zaccaria, and Marcel Journet was welcomed as an old friend in the role of the Bishop. 328 The Metropolitan Opera As an instance of the change that had come to New York’s operatic life in a decade, the performance of Gounod’s Romeo et Juliette on the following night was the first in a full ten years. Yvonne Gall was a pleasingly Gallic Juliette, but John O’Sullivan sang a mediocre Rom6o. Joumet, as Fr£re Laurent, gave a lesson in style for those who cared. No less than half a dozen operas not previously heard in New York were offered by the visitors, but their quality was scarcely exciting. Massenet took pre-eminence over Wagner and Verdi 1 as the most prolific opera-composer known to New York when Cleop 6 .tr e, on February 11, brought to twelve the number of his works produced here. As in several others, the justification was Garden, her Cleopatre being seconded by Maguenat as Marc Antoine. Henderson described the dramatic writing as mostly “vapid arioso.’’ What custom could not stale was dulled by the composer’s lack of variety. Charlier was the conductor. Giorgio Polacco, who had been superseded as “successor to Toscanini” by Moranzoni and Papi, recalled one of the Maestro’s enthusiasms when he conducted Catalani’s Loreley on Febru- ary 13. The occasionally favored tenor air (“Nel verde Maggio”) was well delivered by Alessandro Dolci, but Fitziu (Loreley), Florence Macbeth (Anna), Rimini (Hermann), and Virgilio Lazzari (Rodolfo) were indifferently suited to the music. On February 28 the one-act he Vieil Aigle by Raoul Gunsbourg, di- rector of the Monte Carlo opera, shared an evening with Caval- leria and a ballet divertissement. This was the evening of the Mireille production at the Metropolitan, and Gunsbourg’s crea- tion passed without notice or repetition. The attraction of Galli-Curci was almost as great as it had been the previous year, but the marriage of opinion among press and public was greatly strained. Her first opera was Donizetti’s Linda di Chamounix on February 4, and though she sang its florid measures with ease and skill, critical ears found the voice dulled by overuse in a year of great activity, and the tendency to flat rather disconcerting. Stracciari (Antonio) and Lamont (Carlo) shared prominence in a work not heard for a twenty-nine- 1 The advantage returned to Verdi during the next decade when Don Carlos, Simon Boccanegra, and Luisa Miller were revived. Operas and Artists , 2919-1920 329 year period, when Patti had been the soprano. Following Lucia and II Barbiere, Galli-Curci was heard in Crispino e la Comare on February 17. Direct comparisons with the Metropolitan pro- duction were not drawn, but the evident undertone was that Galli-Curci was not so neat a singer as Hempel (in this part) or so clever a comedian. She also appeared in D inorah and La Traviata, to profitable, but not overflow, attendance. The season also promised several appearances by Melba, but she had a disagreement with the management, and Garden in Pelleas was substituted for her Boheme on February 27. The routine of the company also included Isabeau , with Fitziu, an inferior W either (Irene Pavloska and O’Sullivan), Fedora (with Dorothy Jordan) , Butterfly (with Tamaki Miura) , M anon (with Gall) and Le Jongleur (with Garden). Because there was no amicable relation with the Metropolitan, the competition for customers produced a series of such occasions as Saturday, Feb- ruary 1, when the Metropolitan offered the Puccini triptych in the afternoon and Le Coq d’or and L’Oracolo in the evening, with Thais and Les Contes d’Hoffmann at the Lexington. Little wonder that Oscar Hammerstein looked ahead eagerly to the next February, when his agreement with the Metropolitan would expire. He died, however, on August 2, 2919, at the age of seventy- two. When the final losses of the Diaghilev Ballet Russe were paid out of Metropolitan profits, the year showed a credit of only $3,701. It was the smallest since the bare $1,765 of 1914-15, but for quite different reasons. 1919-1920 The objections that would have to. be satisfied before opera in German could be resumed at the Metropolitan were clearly re- vealed in another quarter before this season began. The former Metropolitan singers Goritz, Ober, and Braun were prominent in a plan to present a season of German opera in the Lexington Theater during October. Underwritten by persons who aspired, in the Suns words, to “restore German art to a position of prom- inence,” the program was met with vigorous public protest. “The fact is,” continued the same Sun article, “that people who have The Metropolitan Opera fought Germans do not at present like the sound of the German tongue.” Possibly the reaction would have been different had the names and intentions not been so identifiable. The opening concert program on October 19 was picketed bv American Legion zealots and others more concerned with emo- tion than art. Inside, the choice of Plans Sachs's “Apostrophe to German Art” (sung by Hermann Weil) as the climax of the evening seemed notably provocative, and those who came w ith regard for art came away confused by emotion. An effort was made, after a few days, to continue the season in English, but the whole venture was soon abandoned. Gatti’s approach was to begin with what had been the most “controversial” of Wagner’s works and was now the most sac- rosanct. Contrary to some recent impression, the production of Parsifal in English on February 19 was not conceived as a stop- gap, but as a serious attempt to persuade operagoers that a good translation would satisfy as much as the original. Krchbiel, a long-time advocate of opera in English, was commissioned to make the translation. To Henderson’s car, however, “it was easier to understand the text” when it was sung in German. This was not necessarily an indictment of Krchbiel, for the longest role in the opera, Gurnemanz, was sung by Rothier, whose excellent French was long admired at the Metropolitan. Kundry was sung by Matzenauer, a Hungarian; Klingsor* by Didur, a Pole; and Titurel by Ananian, an Armenian. Of high credit were Orville Harrold (see page 334) as Parsifal* and Clarence Whitehill as Amfortas. Between them they sang beau- tifully and in clear English, but the overwhelming lesson of an in- ternational opera house has been, and always will be, that strong casting will, almost inevitably, involve a principal 1 to whom Eng- lish is as much a problem as Bengali would be. On the whole, this Parsifal was an unhappy experience for most listeners. Urban’s scenery, save for the massive interior for the Temple of the Grail, was not liked. Henderson thought the woodland lake of Act I “a cold and forbidding mountain sea,” the Good Friday meadow lacking “mood.” Also deplored was the elimination of the moving panorama, “one of Wagner’s c 1! thirty y6arS Iater ' Salvatore Baccaloni in Gianni Schicchi. Paul ochoemer in A Icestis, and Lorenzo Alvary in Coal fan tutta . Operas and Artists, 1919-192° 331 finest effects,” said the same writer. Objection to the first scene was so general that it was repainted a few years later. Aldrich found Bodanzky’s conducting “masterly,” but to Hen- derson much of it “moved heavily on leaden feet.” Although liberally cut, the first act as led by Bodanzky took an hour and thirty-eight minutes against an hour and forty for Hertz, uncut. On Good Friday (April 2) Easton sang a splendid Kundry,* and Henderson referred to Bodanzky’s conducting as “intellec- tual and scrupulously careful,” adding that “it seldom attains heights of emotion.” For a generation bom after 1932, one aspect of the season opening on November 16 must seem absurd indeed. It was the first in history in which, to quote Henderson, “immediate enjoy- ment” could not be guaranteed by consumption of “properly prepared grapes.” In other words, the “choking blight of prohibi- tion” 1 had settled on the land, and the opera bar was not excepted. T osca, however, with Farrar, Caruso, and Scotti, was more than moderately intoxicating, if but a dress rehearsal, in social terms, for the Prince of Wales’s gala on the following evening (see page 7 6 ). A further evidence of the times could be found in the rates for Metropolitan tickets in this first fully postwar season. The top price was advanced to seven dollars, and the bottom charge was raised, for the first time since Grau’s day, to one dollar and a half. By any standard, the artistic event of this year was Caruso’s penetrating character study of Eleazar* in La Juive on Novem- ber 22. By the measurement of Lehmann and Materna (for those who could recall their impressions of 1889), Ponselle as Rachel* and Evelyn Scotney as the Princess* were, in Hender- son’s view, “but feeble representatives of the agonized women” of Scribe’s play. By any measurement, Eleazar was one of Ca- ruso's “highest flights,” from the “exquisite” chanting in Act II to the inspired singing of “Rachel! quand du Seigneur,” which, said Henderson, “might have excited the envy of Nourrit 2 himself.” 1 The Eighteenth Amendment was not national law until January 20, 1920, but local restrictions were already in force. 2 The original Eleazar, for whose text Halevy wrote the music of his most famous air. yp. The Metropolitan Opera Gatti gave Urban a free hand with the stage, and the production was rated splendid even by the expectations of the time. Bo- danzky conducted, and the incidental attractions included a ballet led by Galli, the debut of Orville Harrold (Leopold* d), Rothier as Cardinal Brogni,* and Chalmers as Ruggiero.* Few singers of consequence were added to the roster, but one subtraction was generally deplored. In a pre-season commentary Henderson wrote in the Sun of September 27: '‘In looking over the list . . . this writer finds fulfillment of one prophecy made to him with no small vigor two years ago by a prominent member of the company that Mme. Hempel ‘must go.’ Well, she is gone and the art of singing is so much the poorer at the Metropolitan.” Of three Italian singers added to the company in a second- night Aida on November 19, none enjoyed lasting favor. Gabri- ella Besanzoni (Amneris*) is a name better known to history than Renato Zanelli (Amonasro*) or Giovanni Martino (Ram- fis* ) , but for values others than those she displayed at the Metro- politan. Her voice had fine texture in the medium register, but no uncommon range. She had a prominent opportunity as Isa- bella* in a venture with Rossini’s Italiana in Algeri on Decem- ber 5, but her skill for florid music was limited, her comedy sense weak. This was a depressing influence on an otherwise excellent cast of Hackett (Lindoro*), Sundelius (Elvira*), De Luca (Tad- deo*), and Didur (Mustafa*), lavishly surrounded by a bril- liant Pogany decor. Besanzoni later sang Dalila* on Decem- ber 10 with powerful voice but little seductive suggestion, and Preziosilla* in La Forza del destino on January 26. She did not return. For the first time since Mahler and Mancinelli the Metropoli- tan had a conductor who was also a composer when Albert Wolff made his debut with the traditional Faust on Novem- ber 21. He came to replace Monteux, who had moved to the Boston Symphony in succession to Henri Rabaud. He might have done well with Boris (better than Papi, certainly) , but his talents were directed to a new production of Manon, a restudied Carmen (Farrar was prominent in both of these), and such repertory matters as Samson and Marouf, in addition to his own L’Oiseau bleu, as his setting of Maeterlinck’s fantasy was known at its first performance on December 27. Operas and Artists, 1919-1920 333 First honors went to Boris Anisfeld’s fanciful decor, for still another production more “opulent” than any the Metropolitan had previously offered. “Able and cohesive” expressed Krehbiel’s opinion of the score, which, at its best, Henderson thought “good.” The reservations were many, however, mostly concerned with stretches of text setting in which the score moved “slowly and placidly” (Henderson) with little melodic contour. Louise Berat, a frequent visitor in the past with the Hammerstein company and its descendants, sang an excellent Gertrude,* Delaunois was a charming Tyltyl,* Easton was a proper Mother Tyltyl,* with Rothier as Father Time.* The work had nearly a dozen performances this year and the next, but none thereafter, though Wolff remained as conductor for a third season. The unpredictable fancy of operatic audiences gave Gatti an unexpected success for Farrar when Zaza was introduced on January 16, 1920, though it had no remarkable favor when Tosca- nini gave it first at La Scala in 1900, or in a Chicago revival of 1915. A large share of the credit may be ascribed to David Belasco, whose “master craftsmanship . . . moulded the Metro- politan production into a thing of vivid, scarlet, theatrical life,” said Henderson, beyond the suggestions of Mascagni’s score. Zaza, in Huneker’s opinion in the World, was a “sensation.” He scorned Mascagni’s writing as “dry rot,” but described Farrar as “a new 'J err y’ • • • who will enthrall the town for a long time to come.” Whether by acting or changing costumes in view of the audience, Farrar found in Zaza* a role perfectly suited, in the opinion of Aldrich, to her “gayety and recklessness.” (Crimi as Dufresne* and Amato as Cascart* were also present, but hardly consequential. ) The role coincided with a new wave of popularity for Farrar, who sang it twenty times to few unsold seats during her three re- maining seasons at the Metropolitan. The hysteria it provoked was provocative to Henderson, who wrote at the beginning of the second Zaza season, on November 20, 1920: “All the little gerry- flappers were out last night striving to fill the Metropolitan . . . with their hysterical approval of everything done by the prima donna. . . . What is a gerryflapper? Simply a girl about the flapper age who has created in her own half baked mind a god- 334 The Metropolitan Opera dess which she names Geraldine Farrar.” A new word had joined the language. Mahler’s sponsorship of Tchaikovsky’s Pique-Dame was re- called in the choice of Eugen Onegin for production by his dis- ciple Bodanzky on March 24. Huneker found the music “weak, pretty, inconsequential.” Henderson was more taken by the scor- ing for orchestra, though admitting “the opera as a whole can- not send the listener away with a satisfied mind.” In sum, the objection seemed to concern the theatrical values of the story, for which Muzio (Tatiana*), Martinelli (Lensky*), and De Luca (Onegin*) were conventional Italian opera figures, rather than characters at all Russian. In Henderson’s opinion, De Luca’s Onegin was a “contemptible prig,” which may not be just what Pushkin intended. Urban designed the scenery, and the language was Italian. For this year’s American novelty Gatti turned to Henry Had- ley, one of the most prolific native writers of the day and one of the dullest. The libretto derived by Alice Leal Pollock from Gautier’s Une Nuit de Cleopdtre was described by Henderson as “stilted and unnatural,” but the action of Cleopatra’s Night was contemporary in providing Alda (Cleopatra*) opportunity for those “unblushing candors of the body which are now prac- tised on the stage.” It was also Henderson’s judgment, however, that Hadley had handled his situations as well as any other com- poser alive, save Puccini or Strauss. In the first performance, on January 31, Papi conducted, Harrold was Meiamoun,* Jeanne Gordon sang Mardion,* and Tiffany was Iras.* Norman Bel Geddes was the designer. On March 3 Hadley conducted his own work. Gordon was one of several promising American singers to make debuts this season, being heard first as Azucena* (d) in II Tro- vatore on November 22, and later singing Fatima* in Oberon , Maddalena* in Rigoletto, and Preziosilla* in Forza. All these were creditably done. Rather older, but with limited experience in opera, was Orville Harrold, a Hammerstein discovery who had actually sung in his closing gala at the Manhattan Opera House ten years before. Aldrich thought his voice somewhat “light” for Leopold* in La Juive on November 22 (Harrold’s debut), but Operas and Artists, 1919-2920 335 the suggestion is that Harrold was still using cautiously a voice that had been rather hard driven in the past and was still to re- gain its normal power. A Rodolfo* in La Boheme on Decem- ber 29 convinced Henderson that the “big and powerful” tones of old were once more at his command. Harrold was the False Dmitri* in a Boris of November 24 in which Krehbiel blamed Papi’s conducting for “the accretion of perfunctoriness and care- lessness [that] Signor Toscanini knew how to prevent . . . during his artistic administration.” Win-San-Luy in L’Oracolo, Turiddu in Cavalleria, and Parsifal bear testimony to the valu- able adaptability of Harrold. The number and quality of American singers added to the roster in the several war seasons brought the first all-native casts for Italian and French works. In this period it was a rare phe- nomenon attesting to the abilities of the performers; more re- cently it has been a commonplace attesting to the poverty of the company. One of the earliest Puccini works to be sung with Americans in the leading roles was Butterfly on March 15, 1918, with Farrar, Althouse, and Chalmers. In this season Wolff had Farrar and Hackett for the leading roles of his Manon on March 6, and a full, qualified group of Americans on March 31 when Whitehill and Chalmers (Lescaut*) joined them to sing parts previously taken by Rothier and De Luca. (Wolff chose to omit the gambling scene and restore the “cours la reine” epi- sode.) On April 19 Whitehill was an “elegant and sardonic” (Henderson) Mephistopheles* in a cast with Farrar, Ellis, Har- rold (Faust*), Chalmers (Valentin), and Howard (Marthe) which drew approving comment for its native excellence. In these later times an all-French cast would attract attention. Emmy Destinn’s return in Aida on December 8 was an occa- sion for warm praise of this able artist, who had been interned for three years in Austria. Her vocal state was good, and she was heard with pleasure as Santuzza and Butterfly. Considering her artistry, Destinn gave more and received less than any compar- able performer of her time. Not for her was the honor of such re- vivals as that of II Barbiere on November 27 for Mabel Garrison — it was only a few years since II Barbiere had last been revived, in 1916. Garrison’s Rosina* was neat and well-disciplined but 33 6 The Metropolitan Opera rather small in sound. In the cast were De Luca, Hackett (Alma- viva*), and Mardones (Basilio*). The production was the one of Joseph Urban which has been in use ever since. As the increasingly frequent mention of his name suggests, Urban had won the durable esteem of Gatti, who continued to use his services till Urban’s death in 1933. A versatile theater man, with special skill as an architect (the Ziegfeld Theater at Sixth Avenue and Fifty-fourth Street, New York, is his most durable monument) , Urban often produced sketches more sug- gestive than the finished production— which did not seem to con- cern him unduly. He was able and easygoing, a combination of qualities which predestined him for the Metropolitan of the twenties. For this year’s visit by the Chicago Opera Association, Cam- panini had prepared by far the most ambitious repertory any visiting troupe ever undertook in New York— thirty-two operas in thirty-five days. His own part in the season that began in the Lexington Theater on January 26 was wholly spiritual, however, for he had died suddenly in Chicago of pneumonia on Decem- ber 19. Herbert Johnson was his immediate successor, followed briefly by Gino Marinuzzi, and in the next year by Mary Garden. In the opening L’Amore dei tre re on January 26, Garden sang Fiora for the first time in New York, and Edward Johnson made his debut as Avito. To Henderson, Garden’s was a Gardenized Fiora, “sinuous, shifty of eye . . . tigerlike in stride,” sung with a voice of many colors, but almost always off key. Johnson was commended as “a man of excellent figure, of virile and pictur- esque action, of moderately good voice.” The Tribune thought him “altogether the artist that had been heralded.” Baklanoff and Virgilio Lazzari were in the cast, well directed by the un- familiar Gino Marinuzzi. Johnson was later heard as Luigi in II Tabarro and Rinuccio in Gianni Schicchi when the Puccini triptych was offered on Feb- ruary 1 1 with Rai'sa in Suor Angelica and Carlo Galeffi singing Schicchi and Michele (in Tabarro). On February 27 Johnson sang Demetrios to Garden’s Chrysis when Camille Erlanger’s Aphrodite had its first New York showing. The prime interest concerned the promise that the operatic version surpassed in nudity the dramatic version that had recently scandalized New Operas and Artists, 1919-1920 337 York at the Century Theater, and the house was sold out at ten dollars a seat. Henderson reported that “Garden displayed more of her person and about as much of her voice as in Thais,” and Aldrich found much that was “not pleasant to the eye of decency, or to the ear, either.” The season ended the next day without a repetition. The other interests of the season were divided among new singers, such as Tito Schipa, in old parts, and old singers, such as Ruffo, in new ones. Henderson described the tenor, at his debut in La Sonnambula on February 5, as a singer whose voice pos- sessed “power and resonance, a little reedy, but yet very pleasing in quality.” Galli-Curci was in this cast, and not close to the vo- calist she had been two years before. 1 Ruffo appeared with Schipa and Galli-Curci in a Rigoletto of February 20, described by Hen- derson as “without doubt the busiest Rigoletto the local stage has ever seen . . . and also the loudest.” Galli-Curci had one of her fine nights as Gilda, and the crowded theater responded with cheers. Ruffo had a great personal success in Hamlet on Febru- ary 13, repeating the drinking song. For that matter, he began a performance of Pagliacci on January 28 by singing the prologue one and a half times. The audience plainly enjoyed this more than the following L’Heure espagnole of Ravel, with Gall (Con- cepcion), Defrere (Torquemada), and Maguenat (Ramiro). Aldrich described Ravel’s score as “finely wrought . . . subtle and suggestive,” but Henderson did not consider it either “im- portant or serious.” Louis Hasselmans conducted. Another new work of this visit, on January 28; was Messager’s Madame Chrysantheme (based on the Pierre Loti story that also propagated Madama Butterfly). Tamaki Miura sang Chrysan- theme, with Dufranne (Yves) and Warnery (Kangourou). Has- selmans conducted. On January 30 Alexander Smallens made his debut as conductor of Reginald de Koven’s Rip van Winkle, with Baklanoff as Rip and Evelyn Herbert as Peterkin. There were also two ballets new to New York: Felix Borowski’s Boudour on February 16 and John Alden Carpenter’s Birthday of the In- fanta on February 23. Carpenter’s score, the dancing of Ruth 1 On August 10, 1935 a goiter was removed from Galli-Curci’s throat, which she said had been troubling her for fifteen years. It undoubtedly affected her singing, especially in pitch. g The Metropolitan Opera p ag e (Infanta) and Bolm (Pedro) were all liked, but there was time for only a single repetition before the season ended. Although the Metropolitan could not produce either iNomui ox Falstaff in this period, the Chicago company gave both with credit if not distinction on this visit. Almost thirty years had passed since Bellini’s fine score had last been sung m New York (December 17, 1891), but Raisa’s “imposing and impressive artistry measured fully up to older standards, Henderson describ- ing her voice as “one of the most beautiful dramatic organs New York had ever heard. Marinuzzi conducted well, but the associated singers (Shadow as Adalgisa, Dolci as Pollione, laz zari as Orviso) were erratic. Raisa did what she could to make p alstaff an occasion on February 6 by singing Alice, but Rimini lacked the comic touch for Falstaff. Dcfrere was an excellent Ford, Schipa a disappointing Fenton. Marinuzzi s conducting was praised by Henderson for “well considered tempi, a buoyant touch . . . and a general cohesion.” Beyond Johnson and Schipa, the company also offered Bond in Un Ballo in mascliera , in La Bohdme , in Lucia with Chilli Curci, and L’Elisir d’amore. Maeterlinck attended the perform- ance of Pelleas on January 27, stating that lie had never heard the work before. On leaving, he declared: “In spite of being tone deaf, I passed a very pleasant evening.” Thousands of dollars were spent on the attractive fare offered by the Chicago company, but Gatti had profit figures to show again this year— $46,429. He would have been appalled at the idea that, less than a year in the future, he would be struggling through a season in which his most valuable property and great est attraction would have but a nominal part. Miraculously, the profits continued even if Enrico Caruso could not. 1920-1921 In a winter of numerous happenings and diverse splendors in the Metropolitan Opera House, the most consequential event oc curred on the stage of the Brooklyn Academy of Music on De- cember 11, when Caruso broke down during a performance of L’Elisir d’amore. A few days before, on the 8th, he had wrenched a muscle in his side during a performance of Pa^liacd. He had spent a week-end in bed to case the pain. But even as he refused Operas and Artists, 1920-1921 339 to consider himself a sick man after the Pagliacci, so he chose to laugh off the bloody warnings of the handkerchiefs that passed from hand to hand as he sought to finish L’Elisir. He sang three times again, against Gatti’s protest, before he collapsed with a painful pleurisy on Christmas Day. He never sang again. These are the familiar if sometimes distorted events in the foreground. Those in the background are no less absorbing. Con- sider, for example, the opening La Juive on November 1 5, which, for the sixteenth year in a possible seventeen, 1 presented the com- pany's leading tenor in the leading role. Henderson noted “club land, automobiledom, and the mercantile realm” in the audi- ence. For the first time a reference to “Park Avenue” indicated a new stratification in the social hierarchy. For the first time, too, it became the critic’s duty to report that never before had Caruso “appeared at an opening performance in such a lamentable vocal state.” Extensive pre-season touring had included one appearance in the Mount Royal Arena, Montreal, where, amid -sawdust and chill, Caruso had sung for eighty per cent of the $28,000 receipts. Had Caruso been a lesser man, not so conscientious an artist mindful of Gatti’s dependence upon him, he might have strug- gled a bit against his vocal miseries, given in to them, and after six months’ rest, come back in prime health. But he insisted on proceeding with his normal sequence of Nemorino, Samson, and Alvaro in Forza before the painful Pagliacci and the disas- trous L’E lisir in Brooklyn. “Happiness reigned supreme,” noted Henderson 2 when Caruso braced himself for La Forza del des- tino on the 13th and sang through it successfully. He managed Samson without incident on the 16th, but missed L’Elisir on the 22nd, his complaint now being diagnosed as lumbago. Two days later Caruso decided he was well enough to sing La Juive, with Easton, Harrold, and Rothier. It was his 607th Metropolitan per- formance, and his last. In a summary on January 2 Henderson observed: “When Ca- ruso supposedly wrenched his side in Pagliacci, he may have been suffering from the beginnings of the disturbance in his lungs. At 1 The one interpretation was in 1906, when Farrar made her debut in Romeo et Juliette, with Rousseliere. 2 In one of the mergers in the newspaper realm of the day, his writings now appeared in the Herald. 340 The Metropolitan Opera any rate there is ground for at least a suspicion that he may not have been wholly well at any time since the season opened. Such a theory would account for some very bad singing.” The fears that were allayed, the hopes that were roused, in the next nine months had, so far as one can determine, very little relation to basic physical facts. Mere common sense would have restored his health in a reasonable time, as one of the recent “wonder drags” would have probably cured his ailment in a time then considered impossible. A life became a legend for want of elementary pru- dence. Those who had made the vagaries of the vocal organs a life- time concern were not put off by the stream of hopeful bulle- tins that dotted the season’s course. Toward spring they were more optimistic than previously, causing Henderson to write on April 14: “Mr. Caruso (whom the gods protect) is recovering from a long and serious illness. He has been greatly missed.” Observing however, that such an illness would require a pro- longed convalescence, that the Metropolitan might have to reckon without its special star for many more months, he posed the question: “What tenor has attracted the largest amount of public favor in the course of the season . . . ? We shall un- doubtedly have to admit it was Mr. Gigli.” In normal circumstances, Caruso, then barely forty-eight, would have continued a favorite for a decade or more. Gigli, at thirty, would have served an apprenticeship in idolatry that would have certainly benefited his career. By a whim of fate, the younger man was elevated to a prominence for which he was not quite ready. The ultimate beneficiary was Martinelli, whose ca- reer continued to the splendid climax of a notable Eleazar in La Juive and a memorable Otello, though his natural endowment was— so far as such things can be measured in retrospect— prob- ably inferior to Gigli’s. Beniamino Gigli’s debut on November 26 was no more than an incident in a revival of Boito’s Mefistofele, with Didur a more genteel archfiend than Chaliapin had been in 1907, Alda and Easton dividing the roles of Margherita* and Helen,* and Flora Perini as Pantalis.* Critical opinion was oddly divided, though not about the beauty of the newcomer’s voice. The usually finicky Henderson deemed Gigli the possessor of a “fresh, well- Operas and Artists, 1920-1921 341 delivered lyric tenor” who seemed “a servant of art and not a mere seeker after personal glory.” But Aldrich was wary of his "persistent inclination to sing to the audience,” his bent “to cul- tivate the high note.” Krehbiel reacted strongly to what he called Gigli’s “provincialism,” and thought the bracing atmosphere of the Metropolitan might benefit him. It turned out to be, in the twenties, a hothouse for idiosyncrasies rather than a stem school- ing in good musical manners. Moranzoni conducted this Mefis- tofele persuasively, and the splendid scenery of Boris Anisfeld was warmly admired. So far as one can read in the press of the time, Gigli’s first season was triumphant where mere vocalism was concerned, often a botch otherwise. On December 4 as Rodolfo* in La Boheme (Anna Roselle made her debut as Musetta*d), he sang superbly but surprised some by advancing to the footlights mid- way in Act I to take his bows. Of his Cavaradossi* in Tosca on the 10th (with Destinn and Scotti), Henderson said: “His acting was merely a matter of form, and not very good form at that.” His Avito* in L’Amore on January 1, however (Easton was the womanly Fiora*), surprised for its “fine dramatic sincerity” (Henderson). He was also the first Metropolitan Chenier* when Giordano’s opera was given on March 7, after weeks of waiting for Caruso to sing the part. Henderson endorsed him as “one of the best singers” recently heard in New York, who does “not be- long to the inglorious company of shouters,” thanks to his skill “in mezza voce.” Muzio found special favor as Madeleine,* a role “thoroughly congenial” to her, and the new baritone Giu- seppe Danise earned an uncommon accolade for his Gerard,* in which he “sang like an artist and acted like a man.” Moran- zoni conducted. Crimi was a substitute Chenier* on March 26 and April 20. In all performances Angelo Bada made a salient character of the small part of the Spy.* The taunting shadow of Garden which hovered over Farrar each time she ventured a new French role (such as Thais) was again present when Louise came to the Metropolitan repertory on January 15. Farrar sang Louise* industriously, if with no overwhelming identity with the character. Henderson, for a de- tail, noted that “the good clothes, shoes and stockings” that Far- rar wore did not convey the conviction of Garden’s more authen- 342 The Metropolitan Opera tically proletarian sewing-girl. Vocally, too, the performance was not so impressive as had been anticipated. Harrold was a pre- possessing Julien,* but not a very dramatic one; Berat as the Mother* and Whitehill as the Father* were both excellent. No fault could be found with the conducting of Wolff, but Aldrich detected “signs of age” in the score, judging “Depuis le jour ” 1 as “only a picturesque episode added to the local color” rather than the “keynote of the whole” it had once seemed. As in the Chicago production of 1914, the Noctambulist (well sung by Diaz) was included (it had been omitted at the Manhattan Opera House). The single wholly new opera of this season was, in fact, new only to the Metropolitan, for Karol Weiss had written his Der polnische Jude twenty years before it was heard in a translation by Spaeth and Cowdry on March 9, 1921 as The Polish Jew. This treatment of the Erckmann-Chatrian story made famous by Sir Henry Irving as The Bells was pronounced by Henderson “with- out doubt the deadliest soporific ever administered to an operatic audience in this long-suffering town.” Chief Caupolican, a vaude- ville baritone engaged by Gatti because, it was said, no one else would learn the role, sang Mathis,* whose music was described by Henderson as “wretched.” Mario Chamlee was Christian Brehm,* Gustafson had the title role, and Delaunois sang An- nette.* Bodanzky conducted the premiere and one of two fol- lowing performances, Paul Eisler the last on March 25. The Polish Jew was originally announced to follow a revival of II Segreto di Susanna with Lucrezia Bori, but the order was in- verted, for fear the theater would be half empty before the nov- elty was half over. Thus, said Henderson, “the audience had to swallow the bitter medicine in order to get the sweetmeat.” As in all her appearances since Mimi on January 28, Bori sang more beautifully than ever, in a rare happy ending to an ominous series of events. Only rigid self-discipline in resisting the temptation to sing until medical science was sure her operation was climaxed by successful convalescence enabled Bori to resume her career. 1 His remark, in passing, that “Depuis le jour” was composed, as a piece by itself, before the opera, could explain much about Louise. A good starting-point, certainly; but not one from which Charpentier progressed very far. Operas and Artists, 1920-1921 343 In fact, to Henderson’s ear, the voice had lost its formerly “slightly acid quality,” and was now “mellow, sonorous and smooth.” Her “irresistibly charming" Mimi was matched by Gigli’s Rodolfo,* an “unqualified joy.” Once launched, Bori sailed smoothly through such roles as Fiora in L'Amore dci tre re, Ah-Yoe in UOracolo, Ncdda in Pagliacci, and a Micaela* “full of spirits and rich in charm” on March 11. The first of several Verdi revivals in this decade was very much a qualified success when Don Carlos was heard on December 23, for the first time in New York since an Academy of Music season in 1877. Pa pi’s version utilized matter from three editions au- thorized by the composer, with results that caused Henderson to complain of “altogether too much ponderous recitative.” On the whole, lie found the score “both tuneless and unvocal," “ma- chine made from beginning to end," with a bare exception for “O don fatale," which was “not a particularly fine air” in any case. Huneker thought it "worth seeing and hearing” as an illu- mination of Verdi's artistic evolution, but not otherwise, Papi’s direction did not have desirable animation, and the description by Henderson of Ponsellc’s Flisabeth* as “neither queenly nor tear compelling” is suggestive of the dramatic force provided by the cast of Martinelli (Don Carlos*), Mntzenauer (Mboli*), De Luca (Posa*), and Didur (Philip ID). Urban’s settings had their customary success. Chaliapin’s fondness for the kingly role extended the interest in Don Carlos during the next two seasons, but it was nearly thirty years before the work was produced in a way to expose its particular beauties. To provide the ballet with suitable occupation (Montcux’s re- moval to Boston had, apparently, deprived the company of a con- ductor qualified to deal with Petrouchka), Pick Mangiagalli’s ll Carillon nutgico was presented on December 2. As tire characters suggest (Galli as Pierrot, Florence Rudolph as Columbine, and Giuseppe Boufiglio as Harlequin), the work was derived from commedia dell' arte, set to over pretty music. Its first showing was part of a triple bill with L’O racolo and Cavalleria Rustieana. In the last of these Gigli was Turiddu,* singing, said the Herald, with “great vigor . . . real passion." ll Carillon rnagico served usefully to fill tint double bills with l Pagliacci . Lucia, even L'Amore dci tre re this season, but it disappeared without regret. 344 The Metropolitan Opera The cautious resumption of Wagner in English extended this year to Tristan on November 20 and Lohengrin on February 2, both in productions by Urban which have not been replaced by 1952. Translations by H. and F. Corder, revised by Sigmund Spaeth and Cecil Cowdrey, were used. The Isolde* of Matze- nauer posed a double problem, for in addition to struggling with an alien language, she sought, not too successfully, to adapt her heavy dark voice to the soprano requirements. Often, indeed, it was weightier than that of Gordon, the Brangane.* Sembach, who had apparently kept clear of the Ober-Goritz group, sang a competent Tristan, and Robert Blass, of Conried days, returned as King Mark. The Kurvenal of Whitehill, it was agreed, was the most satisfactory character on the stage, and reasonably intel- ligible. Easton later sang Isolde,* to which Henderson’s reaction was curiously similar to his words on Fremstad: it was “a lovely impersonation,” neither “a termagant, nor a half civilized erotic, but a perfectly normal woman” carried away by emotion. Both works were conducted by Bodanzky, whose Lohengrin was admired for its “wealth of detail,” also— as a rarity— for the addition of a usually unheard ensemble in Act II rather than the subtraction of something usually heard. In the frame of an Urban production rated “the best the work has ever had here,” Easton sang an Elsa* possessed of “supreme art and lovely tone,” Whitehill was a Telramund* of “sinister power and vocal vigor,” Matzenauer a fine Ortrud, as ever, and Sembach a plausible Lohengrin. Taken together, this was “one of the greatest achieve- ments” of Gatti’s direction. (All the opinions are Henderson’s.) On March 3 Harrold sang Lohengrin,* Maria Claessens Or- trud.* The Parsifal performances were much as in the previous year, save that Blass, who had been the Metropolitan’s first Gurnemanz seventeen years before, came back on December 10. A native American, if not a great singer, Blass was desirable while Wagner in English was inescapable. Other than Gigli, the best new singer of this season was Giu- seppe Danise, first heard as Amonasro* (d) in Aida on Novem- ber 17, and later admired for his part in Andrea Chenier (see page 341). In another Aida on December 26, Carolina Lazzari, of Chicago background, sang a very agreeable Amneris,* but she did not return for another season. The American-born Mario Operas and Artists, 1920-1921 345 Chamlee sang a Cavaradossi* in Tosca on November 22 which was commended by the Herald for the “fresh” sound of the voice and certain “lyric qualities of merit,” but he was not of Martinelli-Gigli stature. With Caruso ailing and Gigli not yet ac- customed to the New York winter, there were other opportuni- ties for Chamlee as the Duke* in Rigoletto on November 27 (Nina Morgana made a debut as Gilda*), Pinkerton* in Butter- fly on December 24, Edgardo* in Lucia on January 1, and Win- San-Luy* in L’Oracolo on February 5. A final new name was that of Cora Chase, a Boston soprano, who sang Gilda* on February 4 and a later Rosina of not more than mild interest. Easton’s versa- tility endeared her to admirers of such a musical resource when she sang a “genuinely fine” Carmen* on December 9 in place of Farrar and two days later spelled Ponselle in Oberon by singing “Ocean, thou mighty monster,” said Henderson, “with a firmer command of its style and its dramatic content” than any prede- cessor had provided. The remarkable Mary Garden added a new distinction to her long list when she returned to the Manhattan Opera House in January as executive head of the Chicago Opera Company, thus making of impresaria a word both novel and exclusive. In per- sonnel and repertory the company was much as it had been, though Garden’s generosity in hiring singers— tenors especially- made for a payroll of amazing size (see page 358). Only two novelties were offered, neither of them consequential. On Feb- ruary 4 Gino Marinuzzi conducted his own Jacquerie (with Gall, Johnson, and Galeffi), which had, in Henderson’s opinion, some “excellent pages” though the monotone of “misery, despair and rage” in the action became a little unbearable. Titta Ruffo’s forceful personality made exciting the prospect of Leoncavallo’s one-act Edipo Re (in which the baritone was on-stage for virtu- ally all of its sixty minutes), but the “deadly” music undid him. The same star was a powerful voice for Iago’s “Credo” when Otello was heard on February 1, but the whole of the impersona- tion lacked subtlety. Ra'isa was a moderately satisfactory Desde- mona, Charles Marshall a surprisingly strong Otello. The con- ductor was Pietro Cimini, for whose functioning Plenderson found a new term— he conducted with “as much authority as the singers would allow.” 346 The Metropolitan Opera A dozen years before, the debut of Rosina Storchio would have been a matter of moment, for she was the original Butterfly at La Scala in 1904. When New York heard her at the Manhattan on February 7, the voice was worn and tremulous, though Hen- derson noted that the “childish prattle” of Cio-Cio-San in Act I had never been done with quite so much artistry before. Joseph Hislop was Pinkerton, Baklanoff Sharpless. Galli-Curci (whose engagement for the following Metropolitan season was common knowledge) proved an uncommonly adept singer of Puccini on February 24, when her Mimi in La Boheme was commended by Henderson for its “command of fluent legato,” the charm and grace of the acting. Bonci was the Rodolfo. She had a consider- able success as Juliette on February 9 to Muratore’s Romdo, but her Lakme on February 15 was interesting only for the “Bell Song.” Garden’s parts were a review of such roles as Monna Vanna, Thais, Marguerite in Faust, Carmen, and Le Jongleur, but she astonished “her oldest admirers,” in Henderson’s phrase, when she sang Fiora in L'Amore on February 10 with “outbursts of vocal beauty.” Johnson, GalefS, and Lazzari contributed to a “decidedly interesting” performance under Marinuzzi. The vagaries of criticism should surprise no one, but the capac- ity to learn from experience is well reflected in a Henderson com- ment after Toscanini’s long-awaited return as conductor of the touring La Scala Orchestra on December 28. Having listened, with evident pleasure, to a program that included the A-minor Concerto of Vivaldi, the C-minor Symphony of Beethoven, De- bussy’s Iberia, Respighi’s The Pines of Rome , and two Tristan excerpts, Henderson concluded: “Mr. Toscanini ought to be caught and imprisoned, if he cannot be kept here any other way. He should never have been permitted to escape, even to serve his country. . . . There is always room in this country for such a consummate artist.” Six years of lesser men at the Metropolitan had been eye-opening if not ear-filling. Despite the long inactivity of Caruso and the intensified com- petition of symphony orchestras, the Metropolitan concluded its season with the usual credit balance. This time it was $39,782. Even more heartening was the decision of Caruso’s doctors, in late May, that his condition was sufficiently improved for him to seek a warm climate for full recovery. It was Gatti’s opinion, ex- Operas and Artists, 1920-1921 347 pressed as he was leaving for Europe, that “Enrico Caruso will without any doubt again take his glorious post at the Metro- politan.” Somewhat against the wishes of his doctors, Caruso decided he could recuperate best in his native Naples. When an- other abscess developed in July, local medical opinion tempo- rized about the wisdom of an operation until it was too late. He died on Tuesday, August 2, 1921. Abbreviated though it was by his death at forty-eight, Ca- ruso’s was not only one of the longest careers in Metropolitan history, but also one of the most influential. When he arrived, the pre-season subscription was supported in large part by the ticket agencies. It is not unlikely that the difficulty of getting tickets for Caruso performances vastly stimulated the general habit of subscription. His effect on the repertory, in the estab- lishment of the Puccini literature, in popularizing such works as Pagliacci and Aida, was equally basic. With all the temptation of easy success, the assurance of luxury by the repetition of a dozen popular roles, Caruso made himself a model among tenors by applying himself to such tasks as Renaud in Armide, Julien, Eleazar in La Juive, John of Leyden, and Samson. Such deeds are implicit in the evaluation of him published by Henderson on August 3, 1921 : “In sincerity, in fervor, in devotion to his art, he was the peer of any opera singer in history. . . . He was an in- different actor and a supreme singer when he came here. He fin- ished his career a singer less flawless, but an operatic interpreter who commanded the respect and sympathy of the severest critics, even when they could not credit him with triumphant success.” During his New York career Caruso appeared in thirty-six dif- ferent roles, in as many operas. The works in which he appeared were: Rigoletto, Aida, La Traviata, II Trovatore, Un Ballo in maschera, Tosca, La Boheme, Manon Lescaut, Madama Butter- fly, La Fanciulla del West, Lucrezia Borgia, La Gioconda, L’Amore dei tre re, L’Elisir d’amore, Lucia di Lammermoor, Pagliacci, Lodoletta, Cavalleria Rusticana, La Sonnambula, La Favorita, Marta, Fedora, Le Prophete, Les Huguenots, Faust, Carmen, Germania, Armide, Adriana Lecouvreur, Manon, Ju- lien, Samson et D alila, Les Pecheurs de perles, L’Africaine, Iris, and La Juive. The statistics of his seventeen seasons are appended. Caruso’s ^8 The Metropolitan Opera earnings as a member of the Metropolitan Opera Company, both in opera and in concert, were: Year Fee Appearances f Total 1903- 4 1904- 5 $ 960 1152 29 54 in u opera, u plus u 2 > $ 29,807.62 65,664 1905-6 1 344 60 u u a 4 87,984 1906-7+ 1440 62 a u u O 89,280 OO rL O O rH 2000 68 a a u 2 140.000 1908-9 2000 42 a u it 2 88,350 1908-9 25OO 7 outside appear ances 17 , 5 °° 1909-IO 2000 57 in opera. plus 1 1 16,350 1910-11 2000 28 u a 1 4 2 61,000 1911-12 2000 5 ° u u i £ 0 100,000 1912-13 2000 5 ° u u 4 1 1 10^,000 1913-14 2000 5 ° a u t 4 0 100,000 1914-15 25OO 28 u u 70,000 1915-16 25OO 49 a u 1 18,000 1916-17 25OO 49 u a 1 1 8,000 1917-18 25OO 5 ° a u 1 25,000 1918-19 25OO 49 n u 122,000 1919-20 25OO 47 a u 1 1 7,000 1920 25OO 10 u u, 25,000 f This table shows the number of opera performances sung by Caruso in New York and on tour, as well as the concerts given under contract with the Metropolitan. In later years his concerts were separately man aged and are not included in this table. For several concerts Caruso re- ceived more than the fee for his opera performances, accounting for the discrepancies in the totals for 190 3-4, and 1905-6. t Previous to 1907-8, the figure expressed in dollars is the equivalent, at the prevailing exchange, of the francs stipulated in Caruso's contract. The number of these was: in 1903, 5,000; in 1904, 6,000; in 1905, 7,000; and in 1906, 7,500. EPILOGUE The ascending line of accomplishment which can Ik* readily traced in the Metropolitan seasons from 1908 to 1914 in values Operas and Artists, 1920-2921 349 other than merely vocal— is hardly perceptible in the six seasons that followed. At best, they comprise a plateau from which pro- trude a few peaks: the Magic Flute with Hempel, Caruso’s La fuive, Monteux’s Petrouchka and Coq d’or, perhaps Bodanzky’s Oberon. On the whole, a methodical attention to detail exceeded a fanatical devotion to quality. It would be absurd to undervalue the effect on the world talent market of a great war, hardly less in 1914 than in 1942. Unques- tionably the constricted range of choice was a factor beyond reckoning. But it would be equally absurd to undervalue the effect of a factor within reckoning— the talent of Toscanini— in the altered tone and changed character of the institution. If Krehbiel complained of the deficiencies of the Hertz-con- ducted Wagner, or later of the Papi-led Mussorgsky, it was a complaint against the memory of a readily accessible standard. The man named Toscanini was not indispensable; it was the standard for which the name and the man stood that was sorely missed when no other name with approximately equal authority took its place. Some segments of the press still took the “enlightened” view of Grau that “Nobody ever paid a nickel to see a man’s back.” It was an attitude that carried over to the concert hall, where adu- lation for a Mengelberg or a Stokowski was met with the “sound” view that few people could recognize the difference between their Beethoven and Damrosch’s, so why the fuss? But Seidl, in terms of results, was a prima donna conductor before the term was in- vented; Papi was honored with the title of Maestro, but did not honor it. The ban on German works was of transitory effect in these seasons, long since absorbed in the long flow of works and years. Their slow return, however, cost the Metropolitan dearly in such singers as Maria Ivogiin, Claire Dux, Lotte Lehmann, and Alex- ander Kipnis, who found a readier welcome in Chicago than ex- isted for them at the Metropolitan. The waste of time and money on such matters as The Polish Jew, St. Elisabeth, Lodoletta, and LaReine Fiammette would be an embarrassment were not other more embarrassing matters in the offing. For reasons not related to artistic merit such singers as Hempel, Barrientos, Ober, Kurt, and Schumann, and such conductors as 350 The Metropolitan Opera Polacco, Monteux, Moranzoni, and— in a year or so— Wolff, came and went in this period. Muzio, Gigli, Easton, Hackett, De Luca, Ponselle, Garrison, and Gordon initiated important careers. But who can recall the artistic measure of Edvina, Villani, Le Fon- tenay, Couzinou, Besanzoni, Montesanto, Martino, Zanelli, Ca- jatti, or Zarska— or recall with certainty which of these singers of leading roles was male, which female? A tendency that became a trend was observable in the con- siderable number of American singers who were acceptable for leading or secondary parts but lacked the staying power to strive for durable careers. It is a long list, which grew longer with every decade. In this one it would include Mary Ellis, Mary Mellish, Edith Mason, Marie Sundelius, Reinald Werrenrath, Marie Tif- fany, May Peterson, Cecil Arden, and Alice Gentle, who found other ways of earning a living more attractive. The one depart- ment of the Metropolitan to move steadily ahead in this period was the ballet. Impelled first by the example of Mordkin and Pavlova, then by the visit of the Ballet Russe, it managed sev- eral creditable efforts of its own. But the fire subsided when the trade winds ceased to blow— hardly a healthy condition for an institution of the Metropolitan’s pretensions. Statistics may often be revealing when opinions are not. In Gatti’s first season, 120 performances were given in 18 weeks. In his thirteenth, 155 were given in 23 weeks. The difference of 35 means that in 17 of the 23 weeks, an extra performance somehow had to be accommodated. Perhaps this was integral in a scheme of profit-making opera, or, at the least, a businesslike way of utilizing the eight “services” per week for which the orchestral players were paid, on union contract. This reasoning was deficient in two ways at least: it deprived the company of a needed rehearsal period, while lowering the general level with an increased work load. The institution not merely operated without loss, however, but— as extenuation of all shortcomings— continued to show a profit. THE POST-CARUSO SEASONS 1921-1922 Despite the positive public prophecy delivered by Gatti in the spring of 1921 (see page 347), there is every probability that he Operas and Artists, 1921-1922 351 had profound private doubts about Caruso’s possible reappear- ance. The suspended UElisir d’amore in Brooklyn, he relates in his Memories of the Opera, was the first such experience in his career; his premonition was that Caruso was "lost” to him. When pleurisy set in and operation followed operation, premonition gave way to harsh medical fact. His memoirs recount further that Dr. Antonio Stella informed him: “Mr. Gatti, Caruso will per- haps pull through, and he will keep his voice, for the voice has nothing to do with the pleurisy. But this man will never again have the necessary breath, with all these operations.” Confronted with this informed diagnosis, Gatti could only ponder the figures he knew so well. From 1911 to 1920, Caruso had averaged more than forty appearances per season in New York. In many of these he had been the dominant personality, the man around whom the performance was built. Prudence would have argued a turn in another direction; habit impelled Gatti to abide by the same formula, seeking new ingredients— if not Martinelli, Gigli; if neither, Lauri-Volpi, Fleta, Fullin, and so on, to make it work all over again. As he waited in vain for the new house he had been promised, staging methods and scenic design strode ahead elsewhere, leaving the Metropolitan not merely a static but a retrogressive institution. Habit settled into routine, routine soon enough into inertia. The long-term problems were hardly visible in the success of the short-term solutions— the promotion of Gigli, the engage- ment of Galli-Curci, the sponsorship of Maria Jeritza, the inte- gration into the company of Chaliapin and Ruffo when they be- came available. To the surprise of the best commercial thinkers, the public reaction to the uncertain condition of Caruso during the weeks when subscriptions were taken up was not to “wait and see.” Instead of the expected slump, subscriptions actually rose as many who had held back previously decided this was the time to get the good seats they had been hoping for. Few of them got the good seats, but the subscription sale flourished remark- ably. The applause of the first-night audience on November 14 went to Galli-Curci in her debut as Violetta* (d), to Gigli as Alfredo, and to De Luca in a better than ordinary Traviata. But there were few without a thought, however fleeting, for the man whose 35 2 The Metropolitan Opera part in the openings had become invariable, and many spent a moment before or after the acts in contemplation of Caruso’s draped portrait on the grand-tier floor. A few weeks later the heroic bust that today stands in the Broadway lobby was installed as a permanent reminder to operagoers and artists alike of one who was “the peer . of any . in history.” Galli-Curci’s debut was a particular ordeal, and she began rather breathlessly. As the evening progressed she had better con- trol of what Henderson described as “one of the most beautiful voices this public has ever heard,” and Gigli sang admirably while looking “a dignified family retainer.” Stage and singers were dressed in new colors from the house of Urban. For all her promi- nence in the pre-season press, Galli-Curci appeared on relatively few occasions. Ten performances were scattered in two sequences, with Lucia* on November 17 and Gilda* on November 26 shar- ing her early-season activity with Violetta, and with Rosina* in 11 Barbiere marking her reappearance on February 6 with Cham- lee ( Almaviva* ) , De Luca, and Mardones (Basilio*). She was especially liked in the last of these, Henderson describing it as “bewitchingly gowned,” sung with “daintiness and charm.” The Rigoletto and Lucia productions were newly imported from Italy. Little was known of Maria Jeritza before November 19 save to diligent Continental travelers— and Gatti. She had first come to his attention in 1912 when she had been twenty-five and a star of Reinhardt’s La Belle Helene in Munich. Her success in Vienna soon after led to plans for a New York engagement, but the war delayed it for almost eight years. The gradually growing tolerance for things German allowed her to be introduced in the twenty-two-year-old Erich W. Korngold’s Die tote Stadt, and she did for it in New York what she had done for it in Vienna. By Henderson’s valuation her Marietta* (d) “smiled, danced and sang” its sinuous way into the affections of her listener, and her voice “flooded the auditorium with glittering tone.” Aldrich was impressed by the “powerful . . . youthful and sympathetic” quality of her tones, though he heard some “stridency” at the climaxes. Komgold’s score was very well received, though the ex- ceptional vocal demands it made— Harrold’s energetic singing of Paul* is commonly held to have impaired his voice permanently Operas and Artists, 1921-1922 353 —made it treacherous business for frequent repetition. Mario Laurenti had a notable success with Pierrot’s song, and George Meader made an inconspicuous debut as Victorin* (d). Bo- danzky was warmly praised for his conducting. The production was by Kautsky, of Vienna. This was but a ripple, however, beside the splash Jeritza made with her Tosca* on December 1. Without calling attention to the prone position in which she sang “ Vissi d’arte ” Henderson saw a new life for the familiar work in her “enthralling vitality,” the “luminous intelligence” that gave new meaning to hitherto choppy recitative. Deems Taylor, then critic of the World, noted that Jeritza “half fell, half slid” to the floor at the celebrated mo- ment, to accomplish “a vocal feat as difficult as it was effective.” By Gatti’s recollection, the ovation that followed was the great- est he ever heard in a theater. Some of the legalistic minds on the critical bench— such as Krehbiel— thought the device stagy, but the commentary must be that Jeritza had attempted a very difficult thing and done it well. Certainly many subsequent Toscas must have been tempted to emulate her. That none has suggests, not restraint, but lack of ability. Scotti’s “highly trained art” (Henderson) kept his Scarpia abreast of the drama in the new Tosca, but Aureliano Pertile, a tenor of considerable standing in Italy, was barely no- ticed as Ca varadossi. * Moranzoni conducted. A positive personality in Die tote Stadt or Tosca, or as San- tuzza* when she was seen in Cavalleria on December 10, Jeritza made less impression as Sieglinde* when Die Walkiire was re- sumed on December 16, or as Elsa* in Lohengrin on January 6 with German principals, but the chorus singing English. The long phrases of Sieglinde were embarrassing to her management of breath, and her Moravian dialect oddly evident in the text. Others in the first postwar Walkiire were Sembach, Gordon (Fricka*), and Matzenauer, with Whitehill a truly majestic Wotan. Aside from vocal limitations, Henderson thought Jeritza’s Sieglinde worthy of “emphatic approval.” Tristan was now given in German, with much the same cast as before, and Easton took the change of language in stride by singing Isolde, Elsa, and Sieglinde in German with authority and finesse. Julia Claussen, a routine mezzo, attempted Briinnhilde* in Die Wal- 354 The Metropolitan Opera kiire on April 19, but she was happier as Brangane in Tristan on the 21st. All the old objections to bilingual opera and the unfortunate consequences of the star system might have been raised when Chaliapin sang Boris* on December 9, but the unspoken axiom was invoked that any liberty is tolerable if the justification is sufficient. Chaliapin singing Russian amidst others singing Ital- ian, Chaliapin impressing everybody, including the supine Papi at the conductor's desk, was justified by what Henderson called a “powerful, symmetrical and convincing” characterization, by what Aldrich deemed “a Russian Macbeth” enacted by a “great artist” who made a “profound impression.” Aldrich found some of the “thrilling resonance” in the score unexpressed, neverthe- less. Harrold, Gordon (Marina), Ananian (Varlaam*), and Rothier (Pimenn) were in this cast. On December 14 Pertile (Dmitri*), Matzenauer (Marina), and Mardones (Pimenn) were heard. This was as much as Gatti had contracted for, but public interest was so great that three further performances were added, on January 12, 21, and 26. By now it was apparent that Chaliapin had previously been in poor voice, and the new quali- ties in his art caused Henderson to describe him as “a singer of great skill, as well as an actor of the first order.” Not since Nie- mann’s death scene in Gotterdammerung had the writer seen anything “so thrilling in this line.” The introduction of Ruffo was planned for the role of Don Carlos* when E rnani was revived on December 8, but he was out of voice and was replaced by Danise. A splendid Italian scenic production, and a cast of Martinelli (Ernani* ) , Mardones (Dom Ruy Gomez*), and Ponselle (Elvira) aroused the uncritical, but the soprano’s “spasmodic” phrasing did not win Henderson’s approval where such an air as “ Ernani involami” was concerned. Papi conducted. Ruffo finally sang Don Carlos* impressively on January 28, after a debut as Figaro* (d) in II Barbiere on Janu- ary 19 which earned warm commendation for “great facility . . . elasticity . . . unction . . . color” (Henderson). Galli-Curci not being available, Cora Chase sang Rosina rather mildly. On a later occasion Angeles Ottein, of Madrid, made her debut as Ro- sina* (d). A fluent singer, she did not produce the kind of tone New York preferred, and soon departed. Operas and Artists, 1921-1922 355 The lustrous season that ushered in the twenties also brought the validation of one of Gatti’s long-standing promises: the first New York hearing of Mozart’s Cost fan tutte, promised since 1911, and finally performed on March 24, 1922, in a production by Urban utilizing an inner stage. In Henderson’s judgment, it could be “placed beside the historic revelations which made the Metropolitan famous,” and Aldrich pronounced the performance “thrice admirable” and Bodanzky’s direction “finished, spirited, brilliant.” Easton was a confident Fiordiligi,* Bori a charming Despina,* and Peralta a Dorabella* of unsuspected vocal re- source. De Luca, in Henderson’s view, met the requirements of Guglielmo* “triumphantly,” Meader won esteem for his artful Fernando,* and Didur was an amusing, if thick-sounding Al- fonso.* The recitatives were much abbreviated, and Ferrando’s two arias omitted. For all the long wait New Yorkers had en- dured for Cost, and the evident response it aroused, Gatti did not burden his public inordinately with it. In this and the next four seasons it had eleven performances, and a final one in 1927-8. The renewal of serious activity at the Metropolitan after a kind of wartime hibernation was manifest in the introduction of no less than four other works. Because the company was lacking just the voices desirable, Le Coq d’or had been put aside. Its place in the repertory was taken by Rimsky’s Snegurochka on January 23, with Boris Anisfeld once more providing an admired decor. Hen- derson described the score as “fluent . . . but not impressive,” full of “tender sentiment, burly travesty, merciless satire.” Never- theless, it lacked substance for an American audience, though Bori was a lovable Snegurochka,* Harrold excellent as the Tsar.* As always except for Boris, the Metropolitan’s language for Rus- sian works was French. Bodanzky was the conductor. Among the works that came and went on almost an audition basis in these years (though fully costumed, rehearsed, and staged) were Catalani’s Loreley, first seen on March 4, and Lalo’s Le Roi d’Ys on January 5. Perhaps the choice of the first was im- pelled by a desire to show how much better it could be done by the Metropolitan than it had been done a few seasons before by the visiting Chicago company, but the demonstration did not convince the public. Muzio sang a fine Loreley,* and Gigli was a well-sounding Walter,* but the public did not respond. Moran- 35 6 The Metropolitan Opera zoni conducted. Albert Wolff gave admirable service to Lalo, but the innumerable minor distinctions of Le Roi d’Ys— economy, taste, skillful orchestration— did not atone for its lack of major ones. Ponselle’s treatment of Margared* was judged overstressed by Henderson, but the vocal virtue in her voice, in Gigli’s as Mylio,* and in Alda’s as Rozenn* was considerable. Wolff gave the familiar overture a place of honor before Act II. The opera was not heard in a second season. On the eve of carrying out her intention to retire from the operatic stage, Farrar took a new role for the last time when she sang Anita* in Massenet’s La Navarraise on November 30. It chanced that Emma Calve was appearing in concert in New York during this winter, and Krehbiel, reminded of her tragic power in the part, noted Farrar’s lack of it. Henderson found the Ameri- can’s work “consistent, well-planned and theatrically effective.” It was also well sung. Crimi was Araquil,* and Rothier Garrido.* New production and all, it was dropped after three repetitions. The coincidence of Farrar’s withdrawal and Jeritza’s arrival provoked some aspersions that one happening was related to the other. If they were, it was merely Gatti’s forehandedness in ring- ing in the new while the old still lingered on the scene, for Farrar had long planned to leave the opera stage at forty, and public life in every aspect at fifty. She adhered to both intentions. The public heard that this season would be her last at the Metropoli- tan just before a Faust on January 20, of which Henderson said “she never sang Marguerite more beautifully.” Whitehill's Mephistopheles had reached a new point of eminence— rank as the best since Plangon’s— and Martinelli was a likable Faust. Louis Hasselmans, last heard of with the Chicago company, made his debut as conductor. A clamor for Farrar brought her forward at the end of the eve- ning to inform some who alternately dabbed eyes and waved handkerchiefs: “Children, this is no occasion for a funeral.” Her well-planned retreat found each favorite role buried in applause and flowers, such as had happened to no singer since Sembrich. After her Butterfly on January 23, she invited her listeners to nominate the role in which they would like to have her sing at a formal farewell, and the overwhelming sentiment was for Tosca (as rebuff to those who had swung to Jeritza as the company’s Operas and Artists, 1921-1922 357 reigning Tosca) . Farrar reminded the audience, however, that it was, after all, Gatti’s decision to make; and he tacitly reminded her of his long memory by deciding that her last appearance should be in Zaza, on April 22. In the weeks between she was heard as Louise, Manon, and Carmen, each occasion more hys- terical than the last. The singular fervor of the gerryflappers excelled all bounds when the last Zaza arrived, with banners hanging from boxes, balloons thrown in the air, even the presentation to the star, after Act II, of a crown, which she put on, and a scepter, which she carried off. A moment of real emotion was reached when the opera was over and Farrar finally spoke to the cheering audience. She reviewed her early career and recalled her prayers for a Metro- politan success. But, she said (indicating her mother and father in the front row), she had never dreamed it would “be like this.” “Has George Cohan stopped crying?” she asked. “I don’t want a tear in this house.” She then stated, proudly: “I am leaving this institution because I want to go.” Backstage she distributed her costumes and props to favored gerryflappers, to dispel any thought of a “comeback”; and donning a new outfit made for her by the loyal girls, she was escorted to a car and driven through cheering friends away from opera forever. In addition to the Faust that introduced him, Hasselmans took over everything in the French repertory Wolff chose not to con- duct— Le Roi d’Ys on January 27, Manon on February 3, Louise, Samson, and so on. The epitome of a qualified routinier, Hassel- mans vacillated between mediocrity and distinction for the next dozen years, rarely attaining either extreme. One more Musetta* joined a limitless supply of same when Yvonne d’Arle— native- born despite her name— made her debut in La Boheme on De- cember 1. Viola Philo was the priestess in her debut in Aida on December 20, and Manuel Salazar, of the San Carlo company, was borrowed for several performances of Don Alvaro* in Forza (the first on December 31) when Martinelli was not up to sing- ing it. His powerful high voice was heard intermittently in the next two seasons. The oddly overlapping careers of Farrar and Garden (the lat- ter’s had begun a year later, in 1907) came to simultaneous ends, so far as New York was concerned, in the closing months of this 358 The Metropolitan Opera season. Garden was in the second season of her brief career as directress of the Chicago Opera, well on the way to the million- dollar loss that brought about her (and the Harold McCormicks’) retirement from posts of responsibility. In New York the com- pany opened its Manhattan Opera House season on January 23 with D’Alvarez as Dalila and Muratore as Samson (especially admired for picturesque action), with Polacco conducting the Saint-Saens score. The last important novelty for which New Yorkers could thank Oscar Hammerstein, directly or indirectly, was Serge Prokofiev’s L’ Amour des trois oranges, conducted by the com- poser at its introduction on February 14. In the opinion of Al- drich, “There are a few, but only a very few, passages that bear recognizable kinship with what has hitherto been recognized as music.” Henderson described the work as “an extravaganza,” of which some elements were “riotous buffoonery,” the music, on the whole, being “peculiar.” Boris Anisfeld provided a “stun- ning” succession of designs, and the work was well sung by Jose Mojica (Prince), Nina Koshetz (Fata Morgana), Dufranne (Tchelio), and James Wolfe (Farfarello). Dua, as Truffaldino, won acclaim as a comedian. It was repeated once. Those addicted to cynicism had occasion for laughter on Feb- ruary 4 when Salome was given as a benefit for a French charity headed by Anne Morgan, whose father’s influence had been in- voked to banish the work from the Metropolitan. It raised $22,000 for the charity, but no moral indignation. In Hender- son’s opinion, presentations on the spoken stage since 1910, when Salome had last been heard, made it nothing more or less than “utterly decorous.” Polacco conducted a performance largely Garden, Riccardo Martin being notably weak as Herod. Garden’s final tour was Farrar-like for inclusiveness, Garden- like for exclusiveness— Melisande, Louise, Thais, Le Jongleur, Monna Vanna, and a farewell Fiora in L’Amore on February 25, with Johnson, Baklanoff, and Lazzari. At the last of the last, Garden appeared in the somber shroud she wore as the dead Princess (it was her custom to be borne on-stage as the corpse, rather than passing the task over to a super) and told the audi- ence: “We shall not come here again. We are going to take care of the Western territory, and it will be a hard thing to do.” Operas and Artists, 1921-1922 359 Garden reminded her friends of the easy journey to Chicago by Twentieth Century Limited, and assured them a courteous wel- come on arrival. Among a number of singers who made listening pleasant in Chicago during the remainder of this decade were Maria Ivogiin, who won Henderson’s approval for a voice of “beautiful quality and remarkable high range” when she made her debut as Rosina in II Barbiere on January 28, and Claire Dux, the Nedda of Pagliacci on February 2. Ivogiin was also honored for command of “every feat of the colorature soprano,” and Dux was warmly praised. Joseph Schwarz sang an impressive Germont in La Traviata on January 24, with Schipa and Graziella Pareto, and Wolfram in Tannhauser on February 8, with Rai'sa (Elisabeth) and Richard Schubert (Tannhauser). Otello had its last per- formance for more than a decade when it was given on Febru- ary 22 with Raisa, Marshall, and Rimini (Iago), Pietro Cimini conducting. Commenting on the visiting activity versus the resident com- pany at the Metropolitan, Henderson offered the view: “If we had two opera houses differing in character and styles as do the Grand Opera and the Opera Comique in Paris, perhaps there might be hope for both. . It might be possible to keep two opera houses going if one were the resort of society and the other a 'people’s opera’ exclusively. But then we should be confronted with that other difficulty, namely, that in this country the 'peo- ple’ will not endure being set apart and soothed with something less than the very best. And without the boxes and high priced seats you cannot have the very best in opera.” For the directors of the Metropolitan, what Gatti provided was the “very best,” as attested by extension of his services till May 1926. He reciprocated with a credit balance of $48,201. The seemingly innocent announcement, in midseason, that principals would be hired in the future on a half-season basis, in order to diversify casts and repertory as much as possible, had implica- tions not realized at the time. From it emerged the vagrant com- ings and goings, the arbitrary impositions on management of times suitable to the stars, which have corrupted ensemble and weakened musical discipline in the latest era of Metropolitan history. 360 The Metropolitan Opera 1922-1923 The opening-night ceremony, which had been something of an artistic ritual in the Caruso period, passed, with his passing, into the category of a competition, a coveted reward for service ren- dered. The notion of A rmide for an opening— as in 1910— was hardly less remote than the idea of A rmide at all. In its place this time, on November 1 3, was Tosca with Jeritza, one of sixteen performances in the first two seasons of her arrival and Farrar’s departure. Martinelli, Scotti, and Moranzoni did not fall below the level of “splendid vitality and pictorial beauty” recognized by Henderson in Jeritza’s Tosca. The integration of old and new so skillfully developed by Gatti in his dozen years of experience brought, within the first week, Edward Johnson’s debut as Avito* (d) in L’Amore dei tre re on November 15 to Bori’s Fiora; a new production of Der Rosen- kavalier with Paul Bender as Baron Ochs* (d) on November 17, and Chaliapin in Mefistofele on November 18. Richard Mayr might have been preferable to Bender as Ochs, but this was otherwise close to the best the contemporary scene offered in all of these, with Bender rated a “vast improvement” over Goritz, Easton a compelling Marschallin,* and Jeritza a “fine upstand- ing” Octavian.* Gustave Schiitzendorf was an able Faninal* in his debut, Sundelius a passable Sophie,* and Harrold sang the Italian air in Act I. Henderson rated Bodanzky’s treatment of the score productive of “changeful and even exciting delights,” but the “crass and shameless realism” of the action still offended. The production, by Kautsky, may still be seen. The name of Wilhelm von Wymetal, as stage director, appeared for the first time. The twenty-eight years of Edward Johnson’s Metropolitan ca- reer (thirteen as performer, fifteen as director) began at a high point and rarely declined thereafter. As Avito,* Henderson thought, he “acted and sang with more finish and yet with more freedom” than before, and Aldrich complimented him as “a tenor who is something more than a voice.” This was attested by his adaptability to a sequence of roles that included Dmitri in Boris, Des Grieux in Manon, Cavaradossi in Tosca, Jose, Canio, Pinkerton, Romeo, and Faust within weeks. Operas and Artists, 1922-1923 361 Chaliapin’s Boris, which had previously impelled Henderson to a comparison with Niemann’s death of Siegfried, now prompted the same critic to say: “The operatic stage has fur- nished no such portrayal of the agonies of a soul since Tamagno’s Otello.” Matzenauer, Harrold, and Mardones were somewhat overshadowed by this “huge operatic figure,” and Papi conducted “with diligence but hardly with distinction.” Chaliapin’s Mefis- tofele, somewhat refined since 1907, was matched by Alda and Gigli in a performance described by Henderson as “the best the work has had in many years.” Georges Clemenceau was noted in the very large audience. Chaliapin’s season also included two performances of Don Carlos, in which his enactment of King Philip II on December 2 was more prominent than anything else in the moody score. His singing of “Dormird sol” being heavily applauded, he inserted his own repetition, though the practice was now against the rules of the theater. In the words of Aldrich, “he finally came for- ward . told Mr. Papi where to begin again, and straightway repeated the last stanza . . . with what effect upon the dra- matic illusion need not be described.” If this was unexpected and uncontrollable this time, it need not have been on December 1 3, when the singer indulged the same self-esteem. In this version Act I was omitted, and the stirring scene between the King and the Inquisitor— which, apparently, had not been given in earlier performances at the Metropolitan— was restored. Rothier was the Inquisitor, and Martinelli, Peralta (Elisabeth*), and De Luca (Posa) filled out the cast led, but not directed, by Papi. Tire leisurely return of the Wagner repertory to the Metro- politan extended this season to Tannhauser, which provided (as did Der Rosenkavalier ) a prominent role for Jeritza. Her Elisa- beth* on February 1 did not make quite the impression on New York that it had made on Gatti when he saw it in Vienna in 1913, but it was one of her better Wagnerian roles, sightly and sometimes well sung. Save for Matzenauer as Venus, the cast was new, with Whitehill an excellent Wolfram,* Bender a quali- fied Landgrave,* and Curt Taucher a forceful Tannhauser.* Bodanzky’s conducting impressed some as long-winded. The then-admired Kautsky production is yet to be replaced. The first new German tenor to reach New York since 1914, 362 The Metropolitan Opera Taucher was approved by the Tribune for a “dramatically and vocally thrilling” Siegmund* in his debut in Die Walkure on November 23. Henderson’s description of him as a “typical Ger- man tenor” is more in accord with personal recollection of his work a few years later. Bender was “a vocally sepulchral” Hund- ing* on this occasion, with Jeritza, Matzenauer, and Whitehill in familiar roles. Wymetal’s direction was approved, save for al- lowing Siegmund and Sieglinde to “address their impassioned speeches to the subscribers” (Henderson). Taucher’s Tristan* on November 27 was moderately satis- factory for its “intelligent reading of the lines,” but there was little beauty in the singing. Most of what there was of this was provided by Sigrid Onegin’s Brangane,* valued by Henderson as “beautiful to see, moving to hear.” Matzenauer’s Isolde was more strenuous than ever, Bender’s Mark* ponderous. Taucher was Parsifal* in a German performance on December 8, Matzenauer and Whitehill resuming the original language without incident. Urban’s repainting of his first scene was considered a thoughtful gesture (seepage 331). Onegin had been a New York success even before her Metro- politan debut as Amneris* (d) on November 22, for she was sponsored by Stokowski at a Philadelphia Orchestra concert on October 23, singing “Andromache’s Lament” from Bruch’s Achilles and two Strauss songs in a way to remind Henderson of Marie Brema. “A truly noble voice . . . tragic intensity . . . large style” were among her attributes, rare then, even rarer now. With her as Aida* ( d) on November 22 was Elisabeth Rethberg, rather unsteady in her debut, but commended for a lovely voice and sound style nevertheless. Edmund Burke, the King* (d), was also new. Onegin sang nothing else this season except Bran- gane (see above) though she was in or near New York for many months. The evident intention that Rethberg should be a favorite in the Italian as well as the German repertory gave her prominence as Nedda* in Pagliacci on December 2 before she sang Sieglinde* in Die Walkure on December 18. A little heavy for Leoncavallo, a little light for this Wagner, Rethberg had her warmest success this season as Sophie* in Der Rosenkavalier on December 23. Henderson noted that she sang her high-lying phrases in Act II N 'ii Operas and Artists, 1922-1923 363 j with charm and ease, predicting, if she adhered to her school- ing, “a position of considerable importance in her profession.” ; Two singers of solid German reputation made their debuts on March 1, 1923, when Michael Bohnen sang Francesco* (d) and Barbara Kemp Mona Lisa* (d) in Mona Lisa, of which Kemp’s husband, Max von Schillings, was the composer. Henderson ad- • mired the well-written book by Beatrice Dovsky, but thought the ' score the work of no more than “a mere musical mechanic.” Neither role permitted an inclusive estimate of the vocal powers the performers possessed, but Kemp conveyed a remarkable like- • ness of Mona Lisa, and Bohnen was judged a singer of “much dramatic virility” by Krehbiel. 1 ; The careers of Bohnen and Kemp followed closely parallel lines in this season, though with widely divergent results. They • were Gurnemanz* and Kundry* in Parsifal on March 3, the King* and Elsa* in Lohengrin on March 8, and Mark* and Isolde* on April 4. Bohnen’s Gurnemanz quickly established his exceptional feeling for this character and his high rank as a sing- 1 ing actor. Kemp’s Kundry was interesting, but erratically sung. Her first Isolde, scheduled for March 14, 2 had to be postponed, j and when she did sing the part on April 14, the limitations of range and power in her voice were quite evident. Bohnen put his operatic aspirations in a clear light when he presented a ring to Chaliapin after the season’s final Boris , and received a gold watch chain in return. The Chaliapin-like liberties that Bohnen later permitted himself were singularly unsuited to such roles as Hagen, Wotan, or King Mark, and cost him the good will of many who held his talents in high esteem. A final new singer in the German repertory this season was Delia Reinhardt, then wife of Gustav Schiitzendorf. She sang an •; ingratiating Sieglinde* on January 27. She was scheduled for Butterfly on February 24, but illness intervened. Her only other role was Elsa* in Lohengrin on April 20, with little critical no- 1 This was the last review written by Krehbiel in a career that began in ; Cincinnati in 1874, * n N ew York in 1880. He died, in his seventieth year, on March 23, 1923. '' 2 No alternate Isolde was available, and the bill was changed to Butter- fly, to Gatti’s great professional disgruntlement. No doubt this had a part : ■ in Kemp’s troubles the following season. 364 The Metropolitan Opera tice. Her replacement for Butterfly was Thalia Sabanieeva, a small-sized, small-voiced soprano, described by Henderson as of “San Carlo” quality. (The reference was to the touring company in America, not the permanent one in Naples.) On another occa- sion Butterfly was sung by Easton, when the latest, and last, decor for this work by Urban was shown on November 24. Fif- teen years before, Easton had been an affecting Cio-Cio-San; now she was a Kundry, a Marschallin, an Isolde. Something was missing and it was not only the gerryflappers. Easton was this season's Carmen on November 30, and when she was not avail- able later in the year, Gatti offered Ina Bourskaya in her debut on March 2. This Russian alto had come to New York with a touring company, and gave intelligent service in smaller roles for numerous seasons; but she was rather dull of voice for leading roles. The difficulties with Butterfly and Carmen give point to the opinion recently expressed to me by Geraldine Farrar that her retirement and Caruso’s death were happenings for which Gatti did not compensate in the boom years before the depression set in. (This was not prima-donna vainglory, but an objective evalua- tion.) In her opinion, artists of such background could “carry” performers of lesser experience and give the impresario a nucleus around which a performance could be built. One, certainly, who filled that specification was Lucrezia Bori, who came to new prominence this season in three roles she had not previously attempted at the Metropolitan— Juliette* in Romeo et Juliette on November 25, Violetta* in La Traviata on November 30, and Manon according to Massenet on Decem- ber 30. Memory is not belied by the record of her acceptance in these roles, for the fine Violetta and the touching Manon were immediately successful, less so the debatable Juliette. Henderson warned his readers not to expect anything of the Melba, Eames, or Sembrich variety from Bori’s Juliette. Gigli as Romeo* lacked “poetic imagination . . . grace and aristocracy,” and Didur was a Capulet* who “must have been at least 85 years old with a daughter of 15.” The settings by Urban are still used when the work is given. Queena Mario (born Helen Tillotson) was Ju- liette* on February 10. Hasselmans made what Henderson de- Operas and Artists, 1922-1923 365 scribed as “a gallant and measurably successful effort” to weld an ensemble, but its high points were rather low. Bori’s Violetta,' * however, was the occasion of a “brilliant suc- cess,” said Henderson, blending “youth, beauty, vivacity, histri- onic skill and a lovely voice.” A familiar cadenza at the end of “Scmpre libera ” was omitted, but the offense was not considered serious. Gigli and Danise had the other principal roles, Moran- zoni conducting. In her Manon the same critic was impressed with the vocal “felicity of style" and "an indescribable charm” in her acting that made it an admired conception for a dozen years to come. Chan dee and Rothier were fellow performers. Of other roles recently associated with Farrar, Thais* appeared in new guise when Jeritza was heard on December 14, with an Urban production, possessing “all the sumptuousness” now com- mon at the Metropolitan, seen for the first time. The soprano was a vision of beauty and sang with promising freedom, though she had learned the French text only a few months before. Harrow's Nicias* was acceptable, Whitehall's Athanacl distin- guished. The afternoon of Christmas Day was one of seven occa- sions when Thais was given this season. F.nglish was not heard at the Metropolitan this year, either in a translation or in an original score. A reasonable aversion for the kind of American work which had been available to date in- clined Haiti to foreign novelties, Mona Lisa as representative of German craft, and Franco Vittadini’s A nima allegra as a speci- men of Italian writing. The premiere of the latter on February 14 inclined Henderson to describe the book as one that rose to “hitherto unsuspected heights of inanity” and the music as "one continuous flow of melodic treacle.” Rovescalli’s settings earned major praise, the cast of Bosi (Consuclo*), Tokatyan (lutcio* ), Dmri-Volpi (Pedro*), and Didttr (Don Eligio*) general ap- proval. Morau/.oni conducted. Aldrich dissented from other opinion in finding the work "successfully gay." It had a two- season career, totaling nine performances. Of the two new tenors, Giacomo Lauri-Volpi had made his debut as the Duke* (d) in Rigo/cfto on January 26, singing with a voice of "excellent quality" by Henderson’s standard, which stimulated "bright hopes" for his future. His health, however, ^66 The Metropolitan Opera was not of the best this season, and though he sang Rodolfo.* Alfredo/ Cavaradossi/ Alma viva/ Turiddu/ and Pinkerton.* no conclusive judgment emerged. Armando I oka t van. of Ar- menian extraction, was a singer of less experience. lie was intro- duced as Turiddu in a concert version of Cavalleria on Sunday. November 19 before taking the stage in the same work on Feb- ruary 3. He was later heard as Nicias* in Thais on February 28. being described as having a pleasant voice well used, but rather unformed art. On behalf of Martinclli, who had rarely been favored with special honors, Rossini’s Giiglietmo Tell was brought out on Jan uary 5. In Henderson’s judgment, the old-fashioned construction of the work and its lack of credible characters were debits that even Ponselle (Matilda*), Sundelius (Jemmy*), Martinclli (Ar- nold*), Danise (Tell*), and Mardones (Walter burst*) could not redeem. Papi directed this better than most things, with a rousing performance of the overture before Act II. Rovescalli was the designer. More welcome was Meyerbeer’s L’Africana, whose last per- formances in 1907 were still closer to mind than those of "Veil in 1894. The brilliance and effect of Meyerbeer’s music were con- genial to Gigli, who sang a fine Vasco da Gama/ and Ponselle's Selika* ranked high in her accomplishments up to this time. Danise (Nelusko*), Didur (Don Pedro*), and Rothier ( Grand Inquisitor*) were all excellent, Mario a successful Inez.* Urban was responsible for what Henderson described as “a splendid re- incarnation,” and Bodanzky’s musical work was equally hon- ored. With a series of performances in the next ten years, and three in 1933, L’Africana remains the Meyerbeer work last ap- plauded by a New York public. Both Galli-Curci and Ruffe were transient performers this season, the soprano singing Lucia, Rosina, and Mimi at scattered intervals, the baritone adding Amonasro* in Aida to his record on February 23. Gatti tended to use their services for so-called “benefits”— “so-called” because everybody was paid, with the seats sold at extra prices by any group that paid the company the fee for a full house— and thus they were rarely reviewed in the press. The Wagnerian vacuum left by the absence of the Ring or Operas and Artists, 1922-1923 367 Meistersinger from the Metropolitan schedule was filled by a German company led by Leo Blech and Edouard Morike of Berlin, which settled down at the Manhattan Opera House on February 12. The excellent conductors and some fine artists were impeded by makeshift scenery, an undependable orchestra, and primitive staging, but they left some durable impressions never- theless. Outstanding among them were those associated with Alex- ander Kipnis, the well-known but aging Friedrich Plaschke, and the younger, rising baritone Friedrich Schorr. Kipnis sang Pogner in the opening Meistersinger, with Plaschke (Sachs), Robert Hutt (Walther), and Meta Seinemeyer (Eva). Blech was the excellent conductor. Friedrich Schorr made his impressive debut 1 as Wolfram on February 13, and Elsa Alsen was a superior Venus. Seinemeyer was Elisabeth, Kipnis the Landgrave. Morike conducted Lohengrin on the 15th, with Urlus, of the prewar Metropolitan company, as Lohengrin. Editha Fleischer, a charm- ing singer for the Metropolitan for much of the following decade, sang Woglinde in a poor Rhein gold on February 16, and Mar- cella Roeseler, who had a lesser Metropolitan career, was Rosa- linde in a Fledermaus on the evening of the same day. Some critical opinion thought the best work of this company to be its Tristan, directed by Morike, with Eva van der Osten, Urlus, Kipnis as Mark, and Ottile Metzger as Brangane; others, such as Henderson, inclined to the Walkiire conducted by Blech, whose “perfect tempos’' had not been approached by Metropoli- tan conductors of Wagner within memory. Schorr was an “ex- cellent” Wotan, Van der Osten a “splendid” Sieglinde, and Alsen an able Briinnhilde. Kipnis was honored after a Gotter- ddmmerung on March 2 by a comparison with Edouard de Reszke, the nearest likeness, in Henderson’s opinion, for his “subtle, sinister and commanding” performance. The high praise for Carl Braun had, apparently, been forgotten (see page 277). The success of the Manhattan Opera House run encouraged an additional engagement at the Lexington Theater, during which Morike conducted a poorish Fidelio on March 17 (Alsen, Schorr, Kipnis, and Fleischer were in the cast, but the perform- 1 He had actually sung briefly with the Chicago Opera in 19x2, but he did not care to acknowledge this fact until his career was over. 368 The Metropolitan Opera ance had not been well prepared) , and Heinrich Knote, of Con- ried days, gave surprising evidence of vocal preservation with Walther in Die Meistersinger and as Tristan. In the last of these, Alsen was Isolde, Schorr sang Kurvenal, and Kipnis Mark, with Ernst Knoch conducting. Claire Dux and Maria Ivogiin of the Chicago company also appeared as guests, the former singing Eva in Die Meistersinger and Lady Harriet in Marta, the latter per- forming Frau Fluth in Die lustigen W eiber von W indsor. Schorr’s engagement at the Metropolitan was confirmed before the season ended, and Kipnis was engaged for Chicago, where he was a longtime favorite before coming to the Metropolitan years after- ward (in 1939). Despite a repertory that embraced forty productions, and the expense of four novelties and half a dozen standard works re- dressed (including T annhduser, Der Rosenkavalier, Manon, Romeo, and Thais), the Metropolitan profit for the year was $49,141. Including a week in Atlanta and the visits to Brooklyn and Philadelphia, the company gave 203 performances. 1923-1924 The response to the seven-week season of German opera con- vinced the Metropolitan management that New York was ready for two things: more opera in general, and more German opera in particular. A week was added to the season, producing the twenty-four-week pattern that remained without change till the decline of public support caused drastic abbreviation in 1932. The lengthened season had several unexpected consequences, however, of which the most important was an increase in the number of performances per week, with greater strain on all con- cerned, especially the orchestra. An intimation of the sort was given on February 27, 1924, when Barbara Kemp asked to be released from her contract, pleading ill health. Gatti complied, with customary expressions of regret. A few days later her husband. Max von Schillings, de- cided that the press should know more about the affair, and charged that Gatti “had lost interest” in Kemp and was further dissatisfied because the singer had “not met all the conditions of her contract” 1 the previous season. This Von Schillings ad- 1 The canceled Tristan (see page 363) doubtless rankled. Operas and Artists, 1923-1924 369 mitted, adding that when Kemp came to New York “she did not realize how heavy the work was or how short the time for re- hearsal.” He concluded that the differences were wholly “ar- tistic,” the plea of illness having been given out at Gatti’s sug- gestion. The director’s reply was typically pointed. Kemp’s trouble was, and he quoted her, “nervousness.” He had kept her name on the roster only because of her “high reputation in Germany.” Von Schillings, he concluded, had “lost a splendid chance to remain silent.” Kemp, certainly, had not fulfilled the expectations of a leading soprano, but her charges of a “heavy” schedule and “short” time for rehearsal went unanswered, suggesting that the singers were well aware of the Metropolitan’s shortcomings in these matters before they became generally evident a few seasons later. Although time for another Aida opening had not quite ar- rived (Thais, with Jeritza, Tokatyan, and Whitehill had the honor on November 5), Aida made the first sensation of the new season when it was given on November 7 with a new Italian decor designed by Parravicini, executed by Rota and Rovescalli. “Such scenery cannot be described,” said Henderson; “it must be seen.” (It was seen for each of the next twenty-eight seasons, when it could not be described for other reasons.) Rethberg sang her Aida “extremely well,” said the same writer, and the familiar Rhadames of Martinelli and the Amneris of Matzenauer were joined by James Wolfe, formerly of the Chicago Company, as the King* and Phradie Wells as the off-stage Priestess.* Moran- zoni conducted. The “Cherry duet” and other melodic enticements of L’Amico Fritz were given a further chance for Metropolitan popularity on November 15 after a lapse since 1894. Henderson described it as “the incarnation of repose, one long sweet song of domestic affection,” suggesting some lack of dramatic variety. For the per- formers there was nothing but praise. Bori, in a blond wig, was an affecting Suzel,* Miguel Fleta (who had made his debut as Cavaradossi,* d, in Tosca on November 8) sang Fritz* well, and Danise was a picturesque Rabbi.* Merle Alcock performed cred- itably in her debut as Beppe* (d). The new Urban production, warmly admired, was seen but twice more. Moranzoni’s version 370 The Metropolitan Opera of the score abbreviated it somewhat, and there was time for L’Oracolo to be included on the bill. The total of works by Massenet seen in New York climbed steadily higher when Le Roi de Lahore (new in 1877) was i* 1 * 10 ' duced on February 29 amid an eye-filling decor by Boris Anisfeld. De Luca was an excellent Scandia,* Delia Reinhardt a tasteful Sita,* and Lauri-Volpi sang Alim* with fine vocal quality. Hassel- mans conducted acceptably, and Galli led an elaborate ballet with traditional charm. The fault, and it was a fundamental one, was with Massenet’s score, a weak suggestion of the man who was to write Manon. Four repetitions sufficed for Le Roi de Lahore. Even less favored was a double bill of Raoul Laparra’s La Habanera and Primo Riccitelli’s I Compagnacci, first heard on January 2. Laparra’s score had been on Gatti’s agenda since 1908, and the first act earned Henderson’s esteem for its “vivid and exciting dramatic action.” It fell off badly as it progressed, how- ever, with a third act, in the same opinion, “quite hopeless.” Easton as Pilar,* Tokatyan as Pedro,* and Danise as Ramon* were worthy enough, as was the scenery of Rovescalli. But La Habanera was given only twice again. I Compagnacci had a pleasant tenor part well sung by Gigli (Baldo*), but the music did not escape the general mannerisms of post-Puccini writing. The scenery was the first to be credited to Joseph Novak, staff painter then as he was in 1952. Relatively robust, by these standards, was the three-season run initiated by Fedora on December 8, with Jeritza the central fig- ure, as Cavalieri had been in 1907, and with Scotti once more as De Siriex. The “radiant and ever vivacious Jeritza” (as Hen- derson dubbed her) did more for the opera than it did for her, and she was well partnered by Martinelli as Loris Ipanov.* The production was the work of Urban, as was a new Carmen on November 22, with Easton, Martinelli, Mardones, and Morgana (Micaela) as principals under Hasselmans’s direction. Bourskaya was a later Carmen; Fleta and Harrold appeared as Don Jos6; and there was a German Micaela for a change, Delia Reinhardt appearing on occasions when Morgana, Mario, or Sundelius did not. The total evidence is that in assembling his new company of Operas and Artists, 1923-1924 371 German singers Gatti was making every effort to make them tri- lingual, capable of use also in the French and Italian works (as evident in the instances of Rethberg, Reinhardt, and Bohnen). This is eminently sound practice, but subject to the essential question: how successful? The use of Gustav Schiitzendorf as Mercutio in Romeo et Juliette on December 10 left a vast gap between his work and that of such earlier singers of the part as Albers or De Vries in a time when style was of the es- sence. Schiitzendorf, certainly, was more able to do himself justice as Beckmesser* when Die Meistersinger was restored on Novem- ber 9 in a production by Kautsky which still is in use. Hender- son thought Bodanzky had conducted no other work with “quite the insight” he showed in Die Meistersinger , for which Easton was an Eva* of “great charm and musical finish,” Meader an “unsurpassable” David,* Bender a heavy but able Pogner,* and Whitehill a Sachs well remembered and deeply loved. Rudolf Laubenthal made his debut as Walther* (d), singing with the “good young fresh voice” admired on some subsequent occasions, and the “characteristically German style” that was not. Lawrence Gilman, who had succeeded Krehbiel as the Tribune’s music critic, hailed Schorr’s Sachs* as a “truly great performance” when he sang the role for the first time on February 23, and Henderson spoke approvingly of its “fine manly quality.” No- vember 19 was the occasion for Rethberg’s lovely Eva,* and Delia Reinhardt also sang it creditably on February 23. This singer’s unfortunate Metropolitan career suffered one more black mark when she fainted after the quintet, but recovered to finish the performance. Schorr’s debut occurred on February 14 as Wolfram* (d) in Tannhauser. Henderson characterized him as “a helden baryton” who could also sing “lyrically.” His steady sequence of well-sung parts included Telramund in Lohengrin, Kurvenal in Tristan, a Wotan* in Die Walkure on March 13 which Gilman termed “superbly sung,” and Amfortas in Parsifal. Although Schorr’s Wanderer was perhaps his best role when his voice was in its prime, the Metropolitan had no occasion to use him this season when Siegfried was brought back. Whitehill was the Wanderer* on February 2, and Bohnen sang the part for the first time on 372 The Metropolitan Opera February 28. Easton’s womanly Briinnhilde* was warmly praised, and Meader’s Mime* earned Henderson’s accolade as “without question the best the Metropolitan has known.” Taucher looked well but sounded badly as the young Siegfried,* and Matzenauer was, as ever, an impressive Erda. Kemp was announced for the Siegfried Briinnhilde of late February, but her sudden with- drawal from the company returned the part to Easton. Despite the expenditures for new scenery for L’Amico Fritz, Fedora, and other operas, the prewar Ring settings of Kautsky continued to be used. As in the venture with Oberon, Bodanzky sought to overcome the long-standing objection to spoken dialogue at the Metro- politan by composing recitatives, save in the “Wolf’s Glen scene,” for Der Freischiitz when it was revived on March 22. The value of this innovation was questionable, but not really ques- tioned, for the focus of attention was Bohnen’s magnificent Cas- par,* “a magnetic force [whose] dramatic power vitalizes the whole performance,” wrote Henderson. Rethberg's “lovely qual- ity of voice which has given pleasure to so many audiences” was especially suited to. Agathe,* and Mario sang Annchen* credit- ably. Louise Hunter and Nanette Guilford were among the bridesmaids. The first had made her debut in a Sunday-night concert on November 11, the second as the Countess* (d) in Rigoletto on November 10. In a Freischiitz on April 10, Saba- nieeva replaced Mario, and Meader sang a very intelligent, small- scaled Max.* The other German works were briefly enhanced by Onegin, who sang a splendid Fricka* in Die Walkiire on December 29 and again on January 25; and at greater length by Karin Branzell, who began her first of twenty-one seasons on February 6, also as Fricka* (d) in Walkiire. Henderson described her as “the fortu- nate possessor of a very beautiful mezzo soprano voice which has a vein of contralto in its timbre.” “Poise” and “genuine grandeur of style” were also to her credit. Bohnen was the potent Wotan.* After Ortrud and Brangane, Branzell attempted Briinnhilde* in Die Walkiire on March 17, with more success than Matzenauer or Claussen, though the range was high for her. Her familiarity with the role was an asset at a Brooklyn Academy of Music per- formance of Walkiire on January 27, 1925. Claussen lost her Operas and Artists, 1923-2924 373 voice during Act II, and Branzell, who had finished her duties as Fricka, completed the evening as Briinnhilde. Branzell was one of Gatti’s discoveries of this period who could fill roles in the German, French, and Italian repertory with credit. Between April 7 and 19 she sang Amneris in Aida, Dalila in Samson, and Azucena in II Trovatore, with musical sense if not the greatest abandon. In like manner, Rethberg was called upon for Butterfly (greatly admired for its vocal finesse) and Made- leine in Andrea Chenier ; and Bohnen gave tigerish accent, if hardly the right vocal quality, to Amonasro* on March 3. As for Easton, when not Briinnhilde or Kundry, she was Marguerite in Faust, or Fiordiligi in Cost, the last mistress of so many styles the theater has known. The brilliant career of Lawrence Tibbett began about as in- conspicuously as possible on November 24, when he was noted as Lovitzky in Boris, though not identified as a new singer. His first sizable role was Valentin* in Faust on November 30, when Chaliapin sang Mephistopheles for the first time since 1908, and chose to repeat part of “Veau d’or.” The attention to a young baritone was thus miniscule, but Henderson observed his “light voice of agreeable quality” and thought he might “acquire at the Metropolitan” the stage experience he needed. The Tribune’s judgment was that Tibbett had made “a pleasant impression,” with a “voice as light waisted as his physique.” Both filled out in time. The stage experience was rigorously acquired in such parts as Marullo in Rigoletto, Fleville in Andrea Chenier, Silvio, and the Herald in Lohengrin. The large repertory was further varied by the return of Le Coq d’or on January 21 with Galli-Curci singing the Oueen* with excellent style and indifferent pitch, and Laura Robertson as the Voice of the Golden Cock.* Giuseppe Bamboschek con- ducted a cast otherwise very much as before, and the production was Pogany’s. Marta had another round of performances begin- ning on December 14 with a new production by Urban. Alda, Gigli, De Luca, and Howard (Nancy) were the principals. As one was to notice with increasing frequency, the heavy schedule often resulted in cast changes that not merely deprived the audience of a favorite voice, but substituted one of notably inferior quality. Thus, Sabinieeva for Galli-Curci in Coq d’or, 374 The Metropolitan Opera Marcella Rosseler for Rethberg as Elsa, Millo Picco for Danise as Rigoletto. In the week-end of January 4, 1924 Gatti gave a Friday-night Tannhduser; Boheme and Aida on Saturday; two concerts on Sunday; Thais and Marta on Monday. January 1, 1924 was a date set aside for a gala Tosca to honor Antonio Scotti’s twenty-fifth consecutive season of Metropolitan appearances (he was Scarpia, with Jeritza and Fleta), but Otto Kahn made the date especially notable during a speech at a post- performance supper in the Biltmore Hotel. Reviewing Scotti’s career, he added: “I hope that before very long all those con- cerned may agree upon the erection of an opera house which . . . shall be worthy of this great city . . . and . so arranged as to conform to that genuinely democratic sentiment which in many ways is and in all ways ought to be characteristic of Amer- ica.” This was one of the first public statements by Kahn on a subject on which he was something of an expert. The German Opera Company, shorn of Schorr and Kipnis, be- gan another engagement in the Manhattan Opera House on Christmas Day, but business was not what it had been the year before, and it suspended work on January 7. Events of some note were an opening Meistersinger with Editha Fleischer as Eva, and Hermann Weil, of the prewar Metropolitan company, as Sachs; a performance of Rienzi conducted by Morike on December 26 with Knote as Rienzi; Fleischer as a charming Susanna in a Ger- man Figaro on December 27; and Wilhelm Kienzl’s Der Evan- gelimann on January x. Neither this last nor Eugen d’ Albert’s Die toten Aiigen on January 2 made much impression. The vigorous expansion of the Chicago Opera Company gave rise to rumors that favored Metropolitan artists were being tempted westward, and finally to a statement from Gatti on February 20. He acknowledged conversations with Samuel Insull, but only confirmed that they had “talked seriously and frankly about various phases of the operatic situation, chiefly about the engagement of artists by both companies.” Neither, he said, was negotiating for talent employed by the other. The evidence of the next few years is that a “gentlemen’s agreement” prevailed, but it does not explain why such artists as Leider, Olszewska, Lotte Lehmann, and Kipnis were not engaged by the Metropolitan be- fore they went to Chicago. Operas and Artists, 1924-1925' 375 Two full years remained of Gatti’s most recently renewed con- tract in March 1924, when he accepted a further extension of five years. Edward Ziegler’s contract was likewise extended until 1929. After a season longer than any in history— November 5 to early May, including a tour to Atlanta, Cleveland, and Rochester — Gatti added $66,872 to the company’s credit balance. 1924-1925 The comings and goings of conductors for the Italian repertory finally produced, on November 3, 1924, the man who had been publicly considered the most desirable replacement when Tosca- nini left in 191 5. Tullio Serafin came not only as the unquestioned master of everything relating to the Italian repertory, but as some- thing of a coequal with Bodanzky in the organization of the whole repertory. With Gigli and Bori, Rethberg, Ponselle, and Bohnen, Chaliapin and Galli-Curci as approximate likenesses of Caruso and Farrar, Destinn and Braun, one does not have to be clair- voyant to discern in Serafin further affirmation of Gatti’s ambi- tion to restore the high standards of the Toscanini era. Praise for the scenic splendor of the Rovescalli-Rota Aida intro- duced the year before was lavished now on the musical produc- tion as well when Serafin made his debut conducting a cast that included Rethberg, Martinelli, Matzenauer, Danise, and Mar- dones. For Henderson, it was the most “vital performance” of Aida since Toscanini’s last, and the credit was “chiefly due to Mr. Serafin.” Principal attention was directed to his feeling for dynamics, in which the prevailing level was lower than custom- ary. Thus at climaxes the singers did not have to shout to be heard. This virtue was still present when Serafin came to the City Center in 1952. Some of the now forgotten forces that played upon the Metro- politan in the mid-twenties are recalled in a Henderson article of January 31, 1925. Predicting that his remarks would be contra- dicted, he said: “The theory of those engaged in the manufac- ture and production of operas in Italy is that it is the patriotic duty of Mr. Gatti-Casazza . to arrange the repertory in their favor.” The subject of the moment was Boito’s Nerone. Accord- ing to Henderson, “immense pressure” had been put upon Gatti to produce it. However, the critic continued, it had been an “in- 376 The Metropolitan Opera disputable failure” in Milan under Toscanini, and it would be a waste of time to give it in New York. (By such reasoning, L’Amore dei tre re might never have been given in New York.) Gatti resisted, permanently, the “pressures” connected with Nerone, and did not, in this season, show undue partiality for his “patriotic duty.” In a schedule of ten novelties and revivals, the only one remotely related to contemporary operatic en- deavor in Italy was Montemezzi’s Giovanni Gallurese. This was undoubtedly due to a bias of Serafin, who had conducted the premiere of the work (Montemezzi was a friend of his student days) in Turin in 1905. Regarding its Metropolitan premibe on February 19 as “a saddening revelation” of Montemezzi’s musi- cal past, Gilman could see little reason for a New York produc- tion. Henderson found admirable details in the score, but thought the style “unformed,” lacking the individuality of L’Amore. Lauri-Volpi did not please as Giovanni,* and the German Maria Muller was an odd choice for Maria.* Monte- mezzi was present to be warmly applauded, but the venture dis- appeared after three repetitions. Giovanni Grandi of La Scala designed the settings. Janacek’s Jenufa, in which Jeritza sang the title role on De- cember 6 as she had in Vienna in 1918, left a larger impression of quality than most of the novelties of this period. Henderson found much of the score interesting, though not easy to follow. He thought the book “dismal and repellent,” however, the me- lodic line corrupted by “shrieks and shouts.” In the opinion of Ernest Newman, serving as guest critic of the Evening Post , 1 Janacek was “only a cut above the amateur.” Beyond Jeritza 's striking Jenufa,* the best work was done by Matzenauer as the Sexton’s Widow.* Carl Martin Oehmann made his debut to sing Laca Klemen* (d), and the other tenor role of Stewa Buryja* was sung by Laubenthal. A German text was used, and the scenery was executed by Novak from designs by Hans Pueh- ringer of Vienna. Oehmann had a reputation for the lyric Wagner roles, but 1 Finck’s retirement and the change of status by which Aldrich be- came critic emeritus of the Times, with Olin Downes carrying the burden of work, left Henderson as the remaining active member of the older criti- cal group. Operas and Artists, ig2^.-ig2^ 377 such abilities went without investigation save for a Sunday-night concert on December 28 in which he sang several Meistersinger excerpts. Gatti also used him as Samson on December 20. In later performances of Jenufa (there were only five in all), Meader was Laca Klemen, and Branzell sang the Widow. Bodanzky’s new formula for satisfying Wagnerites was ex- posed on January 31, when Gdtterddmmerung was restored after a lapse since 1917. All the scenes and characters of the drama were included, but bits were chopped here and there to allow the Noms, Waltraute, and Alberich to be seen and heard. Newman found the Norn Scene no more than a vocal accompaniment to a parade of late-comers, but reported that what followed was excellent. The scenery, though striking Newman as “old fash- ioned,” was well lit. Nanny Larsen-Todsen made her debut as Briinnhilde* (d), singing intelligently but with a hard voice that Henderson described as “affected through nearly its entire scale by a heavy tremolo.” Newman thought Taucher a “bourgeois” Siegfried.* If such weakness in the leading roles could be over- looked, the cast could be rated highly, for Bohnen (Hagen*), Schorr (Gunther*), Branzell (Waltraute*), and Muller (Gu- trune) were all excellent. Laubenthal’s Siegfried* on February 11 was his first on any stage, and hope was expressed that his good appearance might count for more with further opportunities to sing the music. The opportunities came, but not the hoped-for improvement. The restoration of Das Rheingold on February 26 permitted the full Ring to be given for the first time in eight years, and Gatti embellished the occasion by instituting a new kind of Wagner cycle. In it the Ring was preceded by T annhauser on February 18 and followed by Die Meistersinger on March 21. This served the valuable purpose of gathering a homogeneous audience for these Wagner works and tended to set them aside from the season’s routine, especially when (as after 1929) the Ring was given uncut. Lack of a first-rank dramatic soprano (Easton was unaccountably excluded from the cycle, though she sang such roles as Gioconda, Rachel in La Juive, Carmen, Isolde, Butterfly, and Fiordiligi in Cost in the first half of the season ) de- pressed the standard throughout, with Larsen-Todsen singing Fricka* in Rheingold, as well as the three Briinnhildes. Taucher 378 The Metropolitan Opera was a poor Loge, Laubenthal no delight as Siegmund. The Sieg- fried performance of March 1 1 was one of famous consequence for Taucher. As he was making his way through the darkened stage to awaken Briinnhilde, he stepped into an open trap and fell twenty-five feet. Fortunately the trap was not fully depressed or he would have fallen another ten feet. He was helped hack to the stage and continued the performance, but the shaking-up marred his work for the rest of the season. Although Maria Muller was only twenty-three when she made her debut in Die Walkiire on January 21, her good looks and willowy figure made her Sieglinde,* in Henderson’s opinion, “one of the most satisfying the Metropolitan has known.” Possibly Muller’s career might have gone more smoothly had she been permitted to specialize, but along with such roles as Elsa, Gu- trune, Freia in Rheingold, and Eva in Meister singer, she was called upon for Maria* in Giovanni Gallurese and even Mimi* in Boteme (on March 30). She was not a Puccini singer by Metropolitan standards, but redeemed herself on April 11 by singing a charming Agathe* in Der Freischiitz. The range of operatic styles offered to New York this winter was remarkably wide, including Debussy’s Pelleas et Melisande for the first time by a Metropolitan company on March 21. (Pre- vious performances had been by the visiting Chicago-Philadel- phia company in 1911.) Interior platforms compressed the area of stage action, and further illusion was provided by Urban’s ex- cellent decor. If the old charge was renewed that the Metropoli- tan was too big for such a work, it did not offset the superseding opinion that the work was worthy and should be heard, even at a disadvantage. In any case, the excellence of the cast headed by Bori and Johnson commanded respect for an artistic endeavor soundly accomplished. Henderson described Bori’s Melisande* as a “fitting companion” for her Fiora, and Gilman admired the “unity of plan and line” her performance conveyed. Compari- sons with Garden are mutely conspicuous. Johnson had studied his Pelleas with Perier, with results Henderson deemed “perfect in style and in delicate suggestion.” With repetition it became the most memorable role of his New York career. Whitehill was an excellent Golaud,* and Rothier (Arkel*), Howard (Gene- vieve) and Hunter (Yniold*) blended into a consistent ensemble Operas and Artists, 1924-1925 379 under the careful if hardly probing direction of Hasselmans. Having committed himself to Pelleas, Gatti made a serious effort to create a public for it by offering it at least twice in each of his remaining years. For 1925 the whole repertory had a decently contemporary tinge, with Petrouchka restored under Serafin’s direction on March 13 and Stravinsky present to be honored with applause and a wreath. A new decor by Serge Soudeikine replaced the pre- vious, if hardly threadbare, one of John Wenger, and Galli, Bolm, Bartik, and Bonfiglio (the Moor) danced commendably. Also honored by Serafin’s participation was a restoration of Fal- staff on January 2, in which such older favorites as Scotti and Alda were joined by Bori (“an entrancing vision of beauty and grace,” said Henderson) as Mrs. Ford,* Gigli an able Fenton,* Telva a capable if not dynamic Dame Quickly,* and the young Tibbett as Ford.* Tibbett’s “magnetic and authoritative” singing of “E sogno” was endorsed by others in different words than these of Gilman, but it was the pleasure of the audience to single him out for particular applause and to create the circumstances that made his name nationally known the next day. Scotti and Tibbett took the customary calls as the scene was being changed, but the au- dience only intensified its clamor with shouts of “Tibbett” until the young singer of Ford appeared alone. In all, this consumed fifteen minutes and many inches of front-page space in the next day’s newspapers. The Metropolitan’s board honored him with a letter of congratulations signed by Kahn, and his future was clearly brighter than it had been before. At a subsequent Falstaff on January 17, Tibbett was allowed to take a solo bow after sharing one with Scotti, and the applause, though cordial, was far from boisterous. The attractive scenery by Urban was still in use when Tibbett became the next Metro- politan Falstaff in 1939, and when he was succeeded by Leonard Warren in 1943. Earlier, Tibbett had earned unusual commen- dation for Schlemil* in a revival of Les Contes d’Hoffmann on November 13, Gilman describing it as “one of the best perform- ances of the evening.” This was not a singular feat, for aside from De Luca’s skillful work as Coppelius,* Dappertutto,* and Dr. Miracle,* the cast of Bori (Giulietta* and Antonia*), Morgana 380 The Metropolitan Opera (Olympia*), Howard (Nicklausse*), and Fleta (Hoffmann*) was well below previous standards. In Henderson’s view, the score was “tenuous” in the Metropolitan, and Hasselmans’s con- ducting pointed the weak spots rather than the strong. Urban’s much-used settings were seen for the first time. Ponchielli’s La Gioconda entered on its longest period of Met- ropolitan favor when it was produced in a new scenic arrange- ment by Rovescalli and Rota on November 8. As with Pelleas, it remained current as long as Gatti did. Ponselle was a principal figure in Gatti’s planning, but she was not available for the first performance, and was replaced by Easton, who sang Gioconda* rather uncertainly. Gigli’s was a splendid voice for Enzo’s* “Cielo e mar,” Matzenauer a traditionally good Laura; Danise (Bar- naba* ) and Mardones (Alvise* ) were both well qualified. Sera- fin’s direction demonstrated him to be “an operatic conductor of fine skill” (Henderson). Ponselle’s Gioconda* on December 9 was but one of many occasions when she sang this music beauti- fully. On January 9 Ruffo was a sinister Barnaba.* The work had more than fifty performances in the next eleven seasons. In addition to the works he prepared afresh in this season, Serafin’s authority and knowledge were beneficial to Tosca, An- drea Chenier, Mefistofele, Butterfly, Traviata, Rigoletto, and L’Africana. Among his numerous Aidas was a Christmas-evening one with Ponselle as Aida.* Her performance was notable for vocal strength, less for dramatic significance, which came with repetition. On February 22 Serafin added his name to those of Mancinelli and Toscanini (also Giulio Setti) as conductors of Verdi’s “Manzoni” Requiem in the Metropolitan. His feeling for the large line of the score was admired, as was his sense of nuance and dramatic contrast. Sundelius, Gordon, Gigli, and Mardones were the soloists, and in a repetition on April 6 Mar- dones was joined by Larsen-Todsen, Martinelli, and Alcock. Much was expected from Toti dal Monte, an Italian soprano first heard in Lucia on December 6, and also as Gilda* in Rigo- letto on February 23. Her facility was approved, but not her fond- ness for the white voice or her habit of pausing before attacking a difficult passage. A rehearing was offered to Elvira de Hidalgo as Rosina on November 27 and as Gilda on March 6. The experi- Operas and Artists, 1924-1925 381 ence she had acquired since her appearances in 1910 was to her advantage, but she had lost much in vocal quality. Galli-Curci remained the ranking, if not overactive, coloratura soprano of the company, with a revival of Dinorah in her honor on January 22. The Rovescalli production was more ambitious than anything usually offered for Dinorah, but the lack of bril- liance in Galli-Curci’s work ( “fluently and agreeably” were Hen- derson’s words for the way she sang) limited the opera to one repetition this year, and none thereafter. De Luca ( Hoel* ) and Tokatyan (Corentino*) were in the cast, conducted by Papi. A final addition to the repertory was La Juive on December 12, in which Martinelli offered an Eleazar* widely praised for its absorp- tion of the Caruso model, as well as for the singer’s expanding artistic capacity. Easton was not a proper voice for Rachel,* but Rothier sustained his responsibility as the Cardinal. Theater superstition, which had labeled Eleazar a fated role for its asso- ciation with Caruso, was vindicated when Martinelli became ill of typhoid fever and did not sing again until March 5. He was in able voice, however, for Canio in Pagliacci (which, like Cavalleria Rusticana, had new scenery by Joseph Novak this season) . When he sang Eleazar again on March 25, the Rachel* was Larsen- Todsen, described by Henderson as “entirely out of her ele- ment.” Those who heard Larsen-Todsen on one of the numerous occa- sions when she sang Isolde* in this period may be interested in Henderson’s reaction to the first of them, on February 14. Out of his copious experience, he likened her to Katharina Klafsky of the nineties, a singer who “is likely to restore life to the long dead theory that operas can be given without good singing.” Scope and vitality it had, also quavery, uncertain sound. With her were Taucher, Branzell, Schorr, and Bohnen, the last, as King Mark, indulging his fancy for walking off stage before the Liebestod. As Mephistophel£s in Faust on April 1 Bohnen affected a gray- tinged costume topped by a red plume. His Gurnemanz in Par- sifal on April 10 was splendidly sung and admirably acted save for an inordinate amount of walking about in the Grail scene. Newman’s observation of the Metropolitan prompted some fresh views of its ways of doing things, including Gigli’s ostenta- 382 The Metropolitan Opera tious bids for applause “like a picturesque beggar appealing for alms.” Guard, as the Metropolitan’s publicist, sought to mollify the visitor with the claim that the management was making a “serious and honest endeavor” to provide the best that “physical conditions and available human elements” can furnish. New- man’s lengthy answer centered on the premise that “with its hu- man material and its financial resources, the Metropolitan could be very much better than it is.” “Internal difficulties and troubles,” he contended, were no more the concern of the opera- goer than a shoemaker’s sore hand would be for a customer who complained about a pair of bad shoes. This exchange followed by hardly more than a week the con- fession by a leading American critic that there was no use, really, in criticizing the Metropolitan. Nothing would be done anyway. This remarkable statement came from Henderson in the Sun of November 28, in answer to a correspondent’s accusation that he did not tell “the truth about the Metropolitan.” Acknowledging the justice of the complaint, he said: “The experience of years has taught . . . that the Metropolitan is not deeply touched by newspaper criticism. The public which patronizes the institution regards its offerings as of supreme excellence. The commentator who decries any of them is likely to find he is as one decrying in the wilderness.” Defending his own perceptions, he continued: “The writer is perfectly aware that . . . 'Carmen’ on Wednes- day was faulty from top to bottom. . . . The Thanksgiving per- formance of ‘Parsifal’ was anaemic. . . . ‘The Tales of Hoff- mann’ feebly done. . . . The opera is a place of resort for persons in search of relaxation. It is no place for antiquarians, his- torians, philosophers or psycho-analysis experts.” Little wonder, then, that when Newman was about to return to England, he mentioned as an outstanding lack in New York the absence of durable standards upheld by influential critics. Little wonder, that is, when one who knew, such as Henderson, did not think it worth while to say what he knew. This was the year, it may be recalled, during which the Juilliard Foundation offered its aid, as stipulated in the Juilliard will, and was turned down because the Metropolitan’s “normal program” might be impeded (see page 20) . That “normal program” con- sisted in giving forty-four operas, plus Petrouchka, in a twenty- Operas and Artists, 1925— 1926 383 four-week season. In this time there were 205 performances (Philadelphia and Brooklyn included), or eight performances every week, nine every other week. The "normal program” also included a profit of $53,809. 1925-1926 The beginning of Gatti’s final decade may serve as a point of vantage from which to observe the changes he had wrought in fifteen years of direction. The opening performance, on No- vember 2, 1925, was unplanned but convincing testimony to the stability the organization had attained. Late in the afternoon Jeanne Gordon reported her inability to appear as Laura in La Gioconda. Twenty years before this would have been a crisis of paralyzing proportions, resulting, perhaps, in a change of opera. Now there was a Matzenauer to call upon. Although she had not sung the role in some time, she studied it as she dressed and by curtain time was, in Henderson’s opinion, “an impressive and colorful figure [who] sang with all her familiar opulence and richness of tone.” Among others “doing old things in the old way” were Pon- selle and Gigli, with Serafin conducting. Opening night or not, “everything proceeded with the certainty and calm confidence of mid-season.” To Gatti belonged the credit that the Metro- politan had become this kind of theater; to him, then, belonged the blame that too many of the forty-seven works in the reper- tory showed routine as well as certainty, complacence as well as confidence. The paradox of the period was that the works least done were likely to be the best done, for they had been freshly prepared. New settings for Rigoletto or Carmen did not guaran- tee better musical preparation than the old ones for T annhauser or Die Walkilre. Nevertheless, the market existed, and it was apparently insa- tiable. Another price rise (to $7.50 for orchestra seats and $4-95 for the dress circle, the cheapest prices remaining $1.65, as fixed in 1920) was absorbed without resistance, if with some com- plaint. A trend of a new sort was evident in the highly publicized debuts of Mary Lewis and Marion Talley. Doubtless the acclaim that had come recently to Lawrence Tibbett had a bearing on this. His publicity, however, had come after he sang, not before. 384 The Metropolitan Opera Mary Lewis, when she made her debut as Mimi* (d) in La Boheme on January 28, was one of the first singers to come from the musical-comedy stage, though many— such as Fritzi Scheff, Emma Trentini, and Mary Ellis— had followed the opposite course. Resisting both the theatrical crowd in the theater and Miss Lewis’s background in the Z iegfeld Follies, Henderson rated her debut “creditable,” but heard little to suggest “a dis- tinguished operatic career.” Johnson’s Rodolfo made for a rather merciless contrast between raw talent and finished artistry, though a new Musetta,* Elisabeth Kandt, sang, said Henderson, “in such a way as to make Miss Lewis seem better than she was.” Lewis later sang Nedda and Giulietta in Les Contes d’Hoffmann without important results. Her marriage to and divorce from Michael Bohnen were the most notable happenings of a five-year career at the Metropolitan. A small delegation from Lewis’s home in Hot Springs, Ar- kansas, was greatly outnumbered by the loyal Missourians who swarmed the Metropolitan for Marion Talley’s debut as Gilda* (d) in Rigoletto on February 12. The management disclaimed responsibility for this, but it did permit the Associated Press to install a telegraph wire backstage, on which Miss Talley’s father, a telegrapher by trade, tapped out the story of his daughter’s “triumph.” This was a considerably different affair in the news and the music columns. The critics refused to be overwhelmed by Talley’s mere eighteen years. After all, Lind had come to public attention at that age, Lilli Lehmann at seventeen, Patti at six- teen. When the critics stated, as Henderson did, that her basically good material was marred by “radically incorrect placement,” the reporters counted her recalls by a highly partisan audience, and the public was impressed. On February 22 a holiday matinee audience paid $14,000 to hear her sing Lucia* with Lauri-Volpi and De Luca, and her subsequent appearances were all well at- tended. The pattern thus established became an established one during the twenties, whether the debutante was from Buffalo or Chatta- nooga, Minnesota or Massachusetts. When Dorothea Flexer made a relatively inconspicuous first appearance as the Old Mother* in Andrea Chenier on March 5, her personal claque from Allentown, Pennsylvania, was more modest in size, but not Operas and Artists, 1925-1926 385 less partial in enthusiasm. Few returned for the occasions when Flexer merited their approval in larger measure. Of the soundly musical ventures that Gatti sponsored this season, the most interest was aroused by Spontini’s La Vestale on November 12. It illuminated two things: a school of classic opera-writing rarely heard at the Metropolitan, and the real range of Rosa Ponselle’s gifts. Of her Vestale,* Henderson wrote: “She has ceased to content herself with splitting the ears . . . and gone in for real singing. . . . Hers is one of the most beautiful organs of tone that the Metropolitan has ever known.” He had praise, also, for the “broad, authoritative stride” of Serafin’s con- ducting, the “superb spectacle” of Urban's scenery, the general good work of Matzenauer (High Priestess*), Johnson (Licin- ius*),DeLuca (Cinna*), and Mardones (Pontifex Maximus*). Gilman also had admiration for the “splendor and massiveness” of Urban’s production, but it passed from view after eight per- formances during this and the next season. Interest in Giordano’s setting of La Cena delle beffe was much of the moment when it was given on January 2, for the Sem Benelli play was a fresh memory as acted in English by John and Lionel Barrymore ( The Jest). Gilman found the musical treat- ment dull, but Henderson, agreeing that “much of a critical na- ture might be said,” termed the score one that “acts and sings well.” He also approved Ruffo’s Neri* as “brutal, savage . . . tortured,” though others held it overdone and crude. Gigli had a success as Giannetto,* Alda was an excellent Ginevra,* and Serafin’s conducting qualified for the flattering encomium “mas- terful.” The scenery was designed by Urban. On January 21 Tib- bett sang Neri* without the huge voice and tempestuous manner of Ruffo, but with vigor and point that won praise for his de- veloping art. Five repetitions this season and two in the next were the history of La Cena delle beffe at the Metropolitan. A new kind of double bill was introduced on November 7 when Peter Cornelius’s Der Barbier von Bagdad was coupled with Ravel’s L’Heure espagnole. The artistic motivation for this may baffle, but it had practical convenience when both were retired after five performances. In an odd reconsideration of opinions previously registered on both works, Henderson found the Cor- nelius score a “hopeless bore,” but pronounced Ravel’s “delight- 386 The Metropolitan Opera ful.” Bori, as Concepcion,* was “beautiful, petulant, roguish, seductive.” Tibbett, as Ramiro,* “a very prince of operatic com- edy.” Downes, in the Times, endorsed Ravel’s work as a “truly Gallic effusion . a masterpiece in little.” Hasselmans, who had conducted the earlier New York performances by the Chi- cago Opera Company, did his work well. The scenery was by Joseph Novak. Some of the dissatisfaction with the preceding Barbier doubtless derived from a ponderous playing of the title role by Bender, but the style of writing retained little zest for the audience in any case. Bodanzky directed, with Meader an out- standing Cadi,* and Rethberg as Margiana.* Urban was the de- signer. A more suitable partnership was provided when Manuel de Falla’s music was heard in the Metropolitan for the first time on March 6, pairing his La Vida Breve with Stravinsky’s Le Rossignol. Henderson ventured to predict that the attractive score, sung in Spanish to excellent effect by Bori (Salud*) and Tokatyan (Paco* ) “may retain a place in the Metropolitan reper- tory for some time,” but its disappearance after three repetitions can only be regarded as “some time!” Serafin conducted, and the usual Urban settings had the usual admiration. Le Rossignol per- sisted for a second season, not because of the fanciful music of Stravinsky (a truly charming score) or the delightful settings of Soudeikine, but because it employed Marion Talley as the Night- ingale.* Serafin directed skillfully. The richest musical revelation of this season was the gusty, brilliantly sung Kezal* of Bohnen when Die verkaufte Braut was revived on January 28. Henderson paid appropriate tribute to the “astonishing variety” of sounds, gestures, and grimaces that made Bohnen’s creation a great piece of clowning as well as a superb vocal accomplishment. Laubenthal was an almost enjoy- able Hans,* Muller a charming Marie,* Meader a delightful Wenzel*; and Schiitzendorf (Micha*), Telva (Kathinka*), and Hunter (Esmeralda*) gave full response to Bodanzky’s zestful leadership. The ballet was well staged in the manner of the pre- vious Mahler presentation (see page 88), the overture played before Act II. Novak designed the suitable scenery. Despite the manifest virtue of the production and the brilliant comedy pro- vided by Bohnen, the habit patterns of Metropolitan patrons Operas and Artists, 1925— 1926 387 left many paid-for but empty seats in the theater during this and the next two seasons when Gatti persevered with the work. It had a much warmer response a dozen years later in English. Jeritza and Chaliapin were each favored by star parts in this season, a revival of I Giojelli della Madonna for the former com- ing on December 12, a production of Massenet’s Don Quichotte on April 3 for the latter. The earlier respect for Wolf-Ferrari’s score had dwindled after a dozen years, Henderson noting the second act as “quite dead.” Jeritza’s Maliella,* however, had “striking merit,” Martinelli’s Gennaro* was commended, and Danise sang well if appearing a “none too young” roue as Rafaele.* Rovescalli dressed the stage, and the costuming, to Henderson, “proclaimed the fact that the Metropolitan is an Italian opera house.” Twenty recalls for Jeritza sent the work on a two-season span of favor. Chaliapin’s enlivening art made Massenet’s feeble score tolerable, permitting him to posture, in Henderson’s words, a Don Quichotte* striking for “burlesque hauteur . . . bland magnificence,” amid Urban’s effective stage settings. Easton made substantially less of Dulcinea* than Garden had, the second focus of attention being De Luca as Sancho Panza.* The latter also had a substantial success when Gianni Schicchi was restored on February 6, with Easton (Lau- retta*) and Lauri-Volpi (Rinuccio*). By general agreement this performance conducted by Papi (the scenery was by Novak) was the best Puccini's little comedy had yet had in its Metropol- itan history. The favorable press for John Alden Carpenter’s Birthday of the Infanta (see page 337) doubtless was an influence in the choice, as a ballet for the Metropolitan, of the work introduced on February 19 as Skyscrapers. It was not written to be danced, but the choreographic plan of Robert Edmond Jones, who also de- signed the “modernistic” scenery, was well suited to the score and to the pride of Americans discovering that the big city, work and play, colored folk and spirituals were proof of exuberant vitality. Even measured by Gershwin’s then new Rhapsody in Blue, Car- penter’s jazz flavor was synthetic, but it pleased the Metropolitan palate. Sammy Lee designed the dance action, whose principal performers were Albert Troy (the Strutter*), Rita de Leporte (Herself*), and Roger Dodge (White Wings*). Hasselmans OF Ttruf' 2 ,Ns n tute zomology library 388 The Metropolitan Opera conducted. It had eleven performances in two seasons, or one less than Cost fan tutte in five. Although Lauritz Melchior’s debut on the afternoon of Feb- ruary 17 was swallowed in the furore of Marion Talley’s debut the same evening, he was unquestionably the most important artist introduced this season, or for several previous ones. He re- calls two major occurrences of his debut: the hammering, back- stage, to install a telegraph line (see page 384) as he performed, and the lack of rehearsal or even conversation with Bodanzky prior to his Tannhauser.* Although some of the outbursts in Act I taxed his range, the beautiful head tone on “ Elisabeth ” was a sensation not provided by any of his contemporaries. Awkward and ungainly as he was and remained, Melchior possessed virtues as a singer which he steadily fostered. Downes noted that circum- stances prevented his debut as Siegmund, and made no embrac- ing comment; the Sun (not Henderson) ventured that he might be “a useful addition” to the company. Jeritza, Branzell, Schorr, and Bohnen were in the cast. Siegmund* came along on February 20, but it was no notable success, Henderson describing Melchior’s performance, with Larsen-Todsen, Easton, and Schorr, as belonging “to a day of small things, daily becoming smaller.” His Siegfried* on March 10 (he had only sung it twice before) was better liked. His Parsifal* on April 2 was successful in the lyric passages, less so in the dramatic. Those who recall his fine recital in Aeolian Hall on March 30 need not be surprised that Henderson used the word “masterly” for some of Melchior’s interpretations, though in praising his “taste, sensibility and feeling” the same reviewer declared “the song recital is Mr. Melchior’s real field.” He returned for limited service in 1926-7, but spent the follow- ing year abroad in study. 1 His real Metropolitan career thus dates from March 1929, when he was heard as Tristan for the first time, freed finally from the lingering influence of his early days as a baritone. The Ring cycle that began on February 25 utilized a sharply 1 Melchior’s carelessness in details of rhythm and accent has teen the despair of conductors on three continents. In comparing him with an even more difficult tenor, however, one remarked: “Melchior anyway is dependable. He always makes the same mistakes.” Operas and Artists, 1925-1926 389 restricted number of singers, with Larsen-Todsen again singing Fricka in Das Rheingold (Meader was an experiment as Loge,* and not too convincing) and the three Briinnhildes. Schumann- Heink was brought back to sing Erda with style but hollow sound (she had last appeared in opera in 1916), and Bohnen made his first venture as Hunding* memorable on March 4 by showing a half-bald skull of which the flesh did not match the color of his make-up. It was fully barbaric in action and sound, however. On the whole there was a stronger ensemble feeling in these performances than in the earlier ones of the twenties, but the orchestral playing was frequently coarse and inaccurate in exposed passages. Gilman, for example, wrote after Siegfried on March 12: “It is a pity that a conductor with so fine an ear, so true a musicianship [as Bodanzky’s] should be hampered by so many inferior players.” But the best players in the world (which the Metropolitan’s were not) could not sustain quality in a winter’s work that called for such exertions as Tristan at a Friday matinee, L’Oracolo, Petrouchka, and Cavalleria at night, Butter- fly and Rigoletto on Saturday, a concert Sunday night, and Sieg- fried on Monday evening (March 26-9). Lawrence Tibbett ventured into the German repertory when he sang the Herald* in Lohengrin on November 30, and other new impersonations included Rethberg’s splendid Elisabeth* in Tannhauser on January 7 and Laubenthal as Tristan* on Janu- ary 16. The tenor’s good looks and plausible demeanor were ad- vantages not accompanied by adequate vocal technique, security' of pitch, or sufficient range for the exactions of the music. Legends of the past or hope for the future seemed dim indeed when he was Tristan and Larsen-Todsen was Isolde. As for com- plaints of shabby scenery, they were silenced, as of January 1926, with Kahn’s announcement that the “new” opera house was nearer than ever, as near, indeed, as West Fifty-seventh Street. Several singers of transient character were heard this season, Mario Basiola singing Amonasro* in Aida on November 11, and Vittorio Fullin venturing Rhadames* in the same work on No- vember 19. Carmela Ponselle was Amneris* in still another Aida on December 5, but she made limited progress in an operatic career. Elisabeth Kandt made her debut as Annchen in Der Freischiltz on January 22, displaying what Henderson described 390 The Metropolitan Opera as “an unsteady tone and a provincial style.” The efforts to accli- mate the German personnel to Italian roles continued with meager success in the instance of Muller as Aida* on February 12 or Schorr as Amonasro* on April 5. Larsen-Todsen attempted Gioconda* on April 17 (with Lauri-Volpi as Enzo* ), netting little attention at this late point in the season. Scotti felt the wrath of his fourteenth Metropolitan Tosca* on March 13, when Easton performed the murder with dignity but hardly the kind of sound the music needed. The rumors that Gatti might not remain as director long enough to preside at a new theater led to a further renewal of his contract until May 1931. For the third year, Gatti would draw $60,000 in salary; for the fourth and fifth, $67,000 (need- less to say, these figures were not published then, or until now). This long vista of Gatti-directed opera prompted the suggestion in the Herald Tribune that he be engaged for life (see page 18) and that various alterations be made in policy if the financial state of the institution was as good as it was rumored to be. As well as explaining how the Metropolitan managed to keep going, Edward Ziegler’s reply rejected the contention of the editorial that its “critics” were its truest friends. Rather, he stated: “Be- tween those ‘friends’ and the great opera-going public, the management . . . unhesitatingly chooses the latter and is proud of its unmistakable approval and steadily growing support.” For such a “normal” year as this, with a profit of $35,277, the reasoning was sound enough. When bad times came, it was much easier for the public to forgo inferior performances than to stay away from the kind of opera it had been offered a decade before. Boris, with Giuseppe Bamboschek conducting on April 10, may have been Boris to those interested only in Chaliapin. For those interested also in Mussorgsky, it was short measure. 1926-1927 The formula by which Gatti arrived at forty-eight productions as the ideal total for a twenty-four-week season has never been published, nor, indeed, do we know whether he did so regard it. But the mystic number persists during this period, suggesting that his thinking could have been that forty-eight works would accommodate, over a two-year period, the needs of two twenty- Operas and Artists, ig26—iQ2j 391 four-week subscription seasons without a repetition of any work. The reasoning is mine, but it has a spacious, Gatti-like sound to it. Of the “48” in this season (well-tempered or otherwise), in- terest was plainly concentrated on Deems Taylor’s The King’s Henchman. For the first time in nearly ten years (since De Koven’s Canterbury Pilgrims of 1917) Gatti risked the money and time to produce a full-length American opera, and the re- ception for it on January 17, 1927 made it seem almost worth while. Taylor was then not only the music critic of the World, but a rising composer with creditable accomplishments for sym- phony orchestra, for choral groups, even in the legitimate theater, where his “A Kiss in Xanadu” had enhanced the appeal of the well-remembered Beggar on Horseback. His selection of Edna St. Vincent Millay as collaborator also encouraged hopes of a suc- cessful result. What could be provided by planning and intelligent foresight made The King’s Henchman in Henderson’s opinion “the best American opera this public has heard.” Resemblances in mood and plot to Tristan and Pelleas were too patent to dwell upon, but Miss Millay’s libretto was, in the same opinion, “the best any American opera has had.” If Henderson found no occasion to speak of “inspiration,” he shared Downes’s opinion that Taylor had succeeded in giving “his text musical form and or- ganic musical rhythms.” Sanborn, in the Telegram, bore heavily on the resemblances in the score to Puccini, Debussy, Massenet, and Mussorgsky before declaring: “For the most part The King’s Henchman is based firmly on Wagner.” Serafin’s direction (he had studied the work from an Italian translation) was first class, and the cast was excellent: Tibbett (King Eadgar*), Johnson (Aethelwold*), and Easton (Aelfrida*). Urban’s scenery was much admired. Because the public response was encouraging and the attitude of the press (as Gatti termed it in his memoirs) “benevolent,” Taylor was shortly commissioned by Kahn to proceed with a second work. “His genius alone,” the generous expression ran, “can decide what the nature of his next opera shall be.” Till the successor emerged as Peter Ibbetson, The King’s Henchman had fourteen performances in a three-season run. 392 The Metropolitan Opera The season of Taylor's first Metropolitan opera was also the season of Puccini's last— an arrangement of emphasis that would be indefensible were Turandot not a flawed likeness of the com- poser’s best abilities. Its production on November 16, 1926 fol- lowed as swiftly as possible its premiere at La Scala in April, and the cast of Jeritza, Lauri-Volpi (Unknown Prince*), and De Luca (Ping*) was pronounced superior to their Italian counter- parts (Raisa, Fleta, and Rimini). Serafin’s conducting, a “gor- geous” production by Urban, and quantities of curtain calls pro- vided an impetus for two hugely attended repetitions that prompted the Sun, on December 9, to describe Turandot in an editorial as “an almost sensational success.” This was not exactly the tone of the general critical response, which ranged from Gilman’s description of the music as “bloated futility” to Downes’s estimate of the whole as “a first night suc- cess and an ultimate failure.” Henderson was impressed by the first scene, with its “promise of something new” in Puccini’s treatment of the chorus, and the “magic spell of inspiration” he wove in the orchestra. Possibly the best summation is provided by Gatti in his memoirs. Turandot, he felt, suffered for lack of Puccini’s self-critical review of the score after performance; his death robbed the work not only of a proper finish (Alfano’s deferential sequences are certainly not that), but also of the changes the composer might have made on reconsideration of its shortcomings. In addition to Jeritza’s “amazing prodigality” of tone, Hender- son endorsed George Cehanovsky, who sang the Mandarin* as “a barytone [with] an agreeable voice. . He will be heard from again.” (He has been every season since.) Pavel Ludikar made his debut as Timur* (d), and Martha Atwood, similarly encumbered, had a hard time with the music of Liu* (d). At a performance of December 6, conducted by Vincenzo Bellezza, 1 Henderson revised his earlier thinking to describe Jeritza as “a screaming scold,” Lauri-Volpi as “her worthy companion,” and De Luca as “utterly wasted” in his part. Turandot had twenty more performances in the four seasons it was given at the Metro- 1 As accompanist for Caruso, Bellezza had directed two Sunday-night concerts in March 1918. He made his debut as a conductor of Metropoli- tan opera on November 4, 1926, directing The Jewels of the Madonna. Operas and Artists, 1926-Z927 393 politan. Its revival at the City Center in 1950 shed considerable light on the problem of casting it adequately. Gatti’s long-standing contention that he would give Mozart operas when he could staff them properly was scarcely supported by this season’s revival of Die Zauberflote on November 6. Marion Talley sang the Queen of the Night’s two airs, in Hen- derson’s judgment, “mechanically and in an amateurish man- ner”; Laubenthal was a “ligneous” Tamino,* Schiitzendorf a “dry” Papageno,* and Bender a doleful Sarastro.* Quite the best Mozart style was heard in Rethberg’s delightful Pamina,* and Whitehill was an imposing Sprecher,* but they had little assistance from the principals other than Meader as Mono- statos.* Soudeikine’s dazzling scenery, if not markedly Mozar- tian, was approved, as was Bodanzky’s conducting. Editha Fleischer made her debut in commendable style as the First Lady* (d), later singing Pamina* on December 18 when Meader was Tamino.* Gatti gave but four performances of Die Zauber- fLote, however, and it was not heard again till the forties. Other musical manna was provided on January 22, when Fidelio was heard (for the first time since 1916) in observance of the centenary of the composer’s death. Urban’s scenic produc- tion (still in use) made its first appearance, as did Bodanzky’s recitatives. To Henderson, his evocation of the noble spirit in the work amounted to “one of the most impressive” perform- ances the work had had in New York. Of primary assistance was Laubenthal as Flores tan,* whose singing in the dungeon scene was “the most successful” this veteran critic could recall. Larsen- Todsen was a grotesque figure as Leonore,* and a strident one in sound. Of stronger virtue were Bohnen’s Rocco,* the excellent Marzelline* of Fleischer, Schorr’s Pizarro,* and Meader’s Jac- quino.* A since-familiar name was invoked by Henderson on April 15, citing a letter from Richard Aldrich in Vienna describ- ing Lotte Lehmann’s Leonore there as “magnificent.” Hender- son continued, satirically: “Well, we need none of her magnifi- cence here. The dollars can be drawn without it” (see page 397) . One of the notable careers of this era was initiated at the open- ing performance on November 1, when Ezio Pinza sang Pontifex Maximus* in La Vestale. Henderson thought it probable he would be “useful,” but Gilman described the new basso as a 394 The Metropolitan Opera man of “imposing figure,” who has an “excellent voice” uS e< with “brains and discretion.” His first season included Ramf 5 s in Aida, Barnaba* in Gioconda, Sparafucile* in Rigoletto, ti 1 ' Abbot* in La Forza del destino, Basilio* in II Barbiere, Pimen* 1 in Boris— in which he had a chance to study Chaliapin’s concep tion as preparation for his own— and Raimondo* in Lucia. lT £ was not singled out for special commendation in any of theS® nor was there reason to suspect that he would be the singer t c revitalize Don Giovanni and Figaro at the Metropolitan or, least of all, that he would become a reigning Broadway favorite twenty* five years later. The shortish fist of novelties (by recent standards) in this season’s schedules very likely had to do with the expectations for a new theater. It was concluded by a revival of Mignon on March 10 (in French rather than the preceding Italian), with Talley as a Philine* “amateurish, very faulty in tone and technic” (Henderson), Bori an “entirely winning and lovely” Mignon,* if not one of much pathos, Gigli as Meister,* and Whitehill as Lothario. Soudeikine designed the scenery, Ruth Page was the solo dancer, and Hasselmans conducted. The excellent Page (who later established her own ballet com- pany) was first seen on February 7 dancing the solos in the polka and furiante of Die verkaufte Braut with Bonfiglio. Although Petrouchka was absent, Skyscrapers was again performed, and Alfred Casella’s La Giara was introduced on March 19 in a stag- ing by Rosina Galli, who appeared as Nela.* The bright, in- genious score was better liked than the choreography, which Henderson described as “conventional and depressingly dull.” Serafin conducted, and the scenery was by Novak. La Giara was preceded by Butterfly , conducted with “much warmth, color, and discretion” by Bellezza, who also gave enlivening service to the other works he conducted, La Boheme, Lucia, and Rigoletto among them; but most of all to Boris on March 25, in which the choral work was stronger than it had been for some time. Even more was expected of Serafin when on December 29 he undertook L’Amore dei tre re (of which he had been the original conductor in 1913 at Milan). Henderson thought it a “fine and inspiriting” reading, but Gilman found it wanting the force pro- vided by either Toscanini or Moranzoni. Ponselle’s Fiora* dif- RICHARD CROOKS < 1 % I k's ( l fU'u x lkon rotiiikr cm Comte Da s* Grieux MANON above: FRANCES ALDA as the Prin- cess in Marouf left : ENRICO CARUSO as Julien 7 GERALDINE FARRAR as Louise , in Julien right: GRACE MOORE as Louise in Louise CHARACTERIZATIONS IlltggJ EZIO PINZA as Boris Godunov FEODOR CHALIAPIN as Boris Godunov ALEXANDER KIPNIS KERSTIN THORBORG as Boris Godunov as Marina BORIS GODUNOV above: LUCREZIA BORI as Mary, EDWARD JOHNSON as Peter Ib- betson, in Peter Ibbetson above right: LEONARD WARREN as Ilo, ASTRID VARNAY as Telca, RAOUL JOBIN as Luca, in The Island God (setting by RICHARD RYCHTARIK) center: MACK HARRELL as Samson, REGINA RESNIK as Delilah, in The 'Warrior AMERICAN AND ENGLISH OPERA left: MARCELLA SEMRRICII right: LUISA TKTRA77.INI dhow: CLAUDIA MUZIO Soniui in Sound i left: ROSA I'ONSKLLE (as San tin zii in Cavdlletui Riisticana ) tii'hl: AMKLITA CALL! ClIRCI las Violetta in I, a Truviatai SOPRANOS left: EMMA EAMES right: LOUISE HOMER (as Orfeo in Orfeo ed Kuridice) above: GLADYS SWARTIIOUT Stephana in Romeo at Julliettc) left: MARIAN TALLEY (as Philinc in Mignon ) right: QUEEN A MARIO (as Orctcl in Utilise l und Gretel j SOPRANOS AND CONTRALTOS above: WAI/l'KR ami I.KOl’OI.O DAMROSCH left: MAW RICK CRAU I1KINRICII CONRIKP MANAGERS OK THE METROPOLITAN-I ri^ht: ANDREAS HHTF.L (as Raoul in Lew I luaucnots) EDWARD ZIEGLER, EARLE LEWIS, EDWARD JOHNSON hit: HERBERT WITHE RSl'C K )N MANAGKRS OF THK MK’I'ROl’OI.ITAN-Ii left: GIUI.IO U.vm i ' VS V/'/A left: ARTURO TOSCANINI rii’JU: ARTUR RODANZKY MKTROPOI.ITAN CONDUCI'ORS— I left: TULLIO SKRAKIN right: ETTORK l’ANIZZA above: ERICH LKINSOORF left: GEORGE SZELL right: BRUNO WALTER METROPOLITAN CONDUCTC )RS— 1 1 kft: FRITZ STIF.DRY ritftt: SIR THOMAS HF.KCIIAM above: JOSEPH URBAN above right: WILLIAM J. GUARD below left: MARIA SAVAGE below: Rehearsal ( $ season i of Pas Rhemyild with KiWKRY DARCY as Fruit. WILLIAM IIAR- OR A VI*: as Dormer, J( )IIN GARRIS a-. | \RMIIA NOVOTNA as Freia. KM AM 'LL LIST ,»> Difwr KKRSTIN TIIORHORC; as Fneka. IIKRHI R I JANS- SEN as Wotaii SOME PERSONNEL AND A REHEARSAL Hove: VRTURO TOSCVNINI the iy he left the \lettopoHUin {April 2^, fnnv right: C JKRAFPINK FARRAR, 'tivirn* on a tout , bids farewell to some cm flappers « Apt it t i<>2 2) left; RICHARD KNIGHT stands on his head outside the Metropolitan on opening night ( November 2 7, 1939) right: MRS, FRANK C. I IKN- PKRSON in the Metropolitan Opera House bar on opening night 1 Saw tuber u, 19.17 ) NI-'AVS GOOD AND BAD ENRICO CAR USX) as Rhadamcs . AHAMO Hint f R as Katnfss. in the twwatum »f Aida on the first Toscanini opening tught {November igi»M ANGELO BADA as Prince Shuiskw AD AMO DIIiUR as Hon, (Uniunt American performance ( March ig, uji;} , in . Ok productions i l if Kf { II iH semin), with PASOUAI.K AMATO as Manfredo, [< >M>; MARIK INKS as Awhihahhi Act 111 scene from 11 Barbiere di Siviglia (1940-41 season), with IRRA PETINA as Berta, JOSE- PHINE TUMINIA as Rosina, EZIO PINZA as Don Basilio, SALVATORE BACCALONI as Doctor Bartolo, JOHN CHARLES THOMAS as Figaro, BRUNO LANDI as Almaviva « S |||1 Opening scene from Le Nozze di Figaro (194S-9 season), with ALESSIO DE PAOLIS as Basilio, JARMILA NOVOTNA as Cherubino, JOHN BROWNLEE as the Count, BIDU SAYAO as Susanna PRODUCTIONS— III Operas and Artists , 1926-1927 395 fcrccl radically from the childlike creation of Bori, but the strength oi hei portrayal and the prismatic colors in her vocaliza- tion were warmly approved. Didur, a singer of vanishing voice, acted his Atchibaldo well, w'ith Gigli and Danise as other kings. Another set of principals gave ejuite a different accent on Janu- ary 29- when Bori and Johnson were joined by Tibbett as Man- fredo* and Ludikar as Atchibaldo,* both notably good. I he upward trend of 1 ibbett s career had a minor if conspicu- ous detour on November 3 when he sang Ko timer* in Die Meis- temngcr in such a way as to prompt Gilman to write: “Mr. Tib- bett’s acting was amateurish, his singing the worst we have ever heard from him. and his makeup beyond belief.” At that, Tib- bett had a prominent if not worthy model in the matter of eccen- tricity in Michael Bohnen, whose so-called “archeological re- searches" this season produced the following guises for Hagen in C’Ottcnlatnnwrung: on January 14, a shaven skull from which protruded a single knot of hair; on January 26, a flaming red wig and beard; on March iS, something like the conventional black board and wig. If the stage manager (the role of stage director virtually had lapsed at this time) had no firmer control of Bohnen, why should others be deterred? The uncommon occurrence of an evening performance of Das Rheingold on January 28 was explained by the artistry and im- agination of Walt her Kirehhoff, who made his debut as Loge* (d). Those who had not heard Vogl, Van Dyck, or Burrian were assured by one who had (1 Icnderson) that KirchhofFs Loge was quite in their class, “one of the finest” impersonations of the subtle and crafty schemer New York had seen. The applause for his narrative was, to Henderson, “unheard of.” As in recent Ring cycles, t Ire one beginning on February 24 offered Larscn-Todsen in all the principal soprano parts. KirchhofFs Sicgmund* on March 4, like his later singing of the two Siegfrieds, Waltlier, and Tristan, was quite the artistic equal of his Loge, but their requirements of fresh and vital sound were not in the equipment of a tenor whose debut in Berlin had occurred in 1906. He was an impres- sive figure of a bearded Tristan on April 4, with Fasten, Branzcll, and Whitehill, but a strained singer. On December 8 Easton sang the Wdkurc Briinnhildc,* with difficulty in the “Ho-jo-to-ho” creditably thereafter, but not with distinction. This was some- 396 The Metropolitan Opera thing of an interim season for Melchior, who sang Siegmund on February 18 and nothing further till Parsifal on April 15. De- scription of the latter as “powerful, interesting and frequently poetic” (the Sun ) was the most commendation Melchior had earned to this time. As in the past, Bodanzky was the unvarying conductor for the Wagner works, also Mozart, Beethoven, and Smetana. On De- cember 22, when he was ill, Bamboschek conducted Lohengrin in his place, without incident. Working the increasing number of new German singers into the repertory was something of a chore, especially as it was done almost wholly without rehearsal. Thus, in a Rosenkavalier of March 16, Bohnen was Ochs,* Muller sang Octavian,* and Fleischer was Sophie.* Both women were excel- lent, but the favorite Kezal and Caspar were a heavy, overstressed Ochs and a gruff-sounding one. Easton was the Marschallin. The same German singers in the Italian repertory posed differ- ent kinds of problems. Muller, singing Butterfly* for the first time on any stage on February 16, was, to Henderson, “still in the chrysalis state.” Rethberg as Mimi* on November 27 was a delightful vocal artist, a doubtful dramatic asset. On April 11, when Johnson sang Rhadames,* Henderson noted a “delightful diversity of styles ranging from the elegance of Edward Johnson to the bumptiousness of the aggressive Mr. Bohnen” as Amo- nasro. Muller was the Aida, Claussen Amneris, and Joseph Mc- Pherson the King. The only Italian in the cast was the Mes- senger, Alfio Tedesco— whose name means “German.” McPherson, who had made his debut in the same role on December 30, was one of an increasing number of American singers with the minimum ability to qualify for the Metropolitan, but neither the perseverance nor the stamina to survive the trial by fire. Somewhat similar were Elda Vettori, who sang first as Santuzza* in Cavalleria on November 20, and Louise Lerch, who graduated from a Sunday-night concert on November 7 to the Countess* in Rigoletto on the 10th. Vettori later sang creditably as Gioconda, Lauretta in Gianni Schicchi, and A'ida. Relatively little excitement attended the return of Galli-Curci as Violetta on January 5, especially when the critics reported her vocal condition deteriorating. She sang, in Henderson’s words, with “a small volume of tone and a dispiriting want of brilliance.” Operas and Artists , 1927-1928 397 Rosina, Gilda, and Lucia were other roles she sang during her month’s engagement. Her fame still supported a strong demand for tickets, however, even if the quality of her performances did not justify it. This year’s tour extended not only to Atlanta and Cleveland, hut also to Baltimore, Washington, and Rochester. On the re- turn to New York on May 9, Gatti assured the press: “Never has the Metropolitan had its performances so largely attended. We have broken the record again.” This was doubtless a source of comfort, if not the kind of season-ending review published by Henderson on April 15, 1926: “The venerable and shabby 'La Gioconda,’ lamely done and inefficiently sung, had eight per- formances. 'Aida’ had nine and the last of them was a truly sor- rowful revelation. . . . The buffooneries of Mr. Bohnen are correct because they draw money. The colorless phantasms of Bruennhilde and Isolde which pipe their pallid woes into the awe- stricken auditorium are correct because they draw money. The dull and heavy footed interpretations of one work after another, with the great ‘Meistersinger’ hanging the most ponderous weight of all about the neck of the season, are correct because they draw money.” They all drew, indeed, to a profit close to the greatest in post- war Metropolitan opera— $142,041. When an interviewer for the Herald Tribune asked Gatti on April 11 when new settings for the Ring might be forthcoming, he replied with a reference to the possible new theater, but added: “Kautsky’s [Ring] settings are almost new, owing to the marvellous quality of pre-war German materials. . . . The sets for Meistersinger and Tristan , made eight to ten years later, seem older than those for the Ring.” To be sure, the competition in unsightliness was close. But to describe as “almost new” the frayed Walkiire and the dull Gbtterddmmerung of this period was virtually to say that the Wagner public would continue to patronize the Metropolitan because it had no alternative. 1927-1928 The season that marked a new high point of profit in postwar Metropolitan operations, and a more numerous repertory (forty- nine works) than any before or since, should be memorable for 398 The Metropolitan Opera other reasons than statistical, but it is hard to find them. Two happenings provided promise, if not complete fulfillment: the long-waited appearance of Rosa Ponselle as Norma on Novem- ber 16, and the debut of Grace Moore on February 7, 1928. Because Moore was better known on Broadway than Mary Lewis had been, and was the favorite, particularly, of the Algon- quin coterie, her debut as Mimi* in La Boheme was as near a family party as the Metropolitan has known. More than one hundred friends from Tennessee, Miss Moore’s native state, were present, including its two United States Senators, Tyson and MacKellar. Of her performance Henderson wrote: “a pretty voice of lyric quality, the color tending toward mellowness . . . capable of more warmth than the singer knew how to evoke from it.” Her acting inclined to simplicity: “Two or three rather con- strained gestures . an alternation of facial expression from smile to no smile,” were the limits of her dramatic powers. For Moore’s Mimi, as for Lewis’s, the Rodolfo was Johnson, with Bellezza conducting and Fleischer an excellent Musetta.* Kahn’s comment that Moore’s third act was the best he had ever heard may have had to do with qualities not apparent to everyone, but she survived the premature adulation to press ahead to a career still on its upward course when she was killed in a plane crash in 1946. In this first season her only other role was Lauretta* in Gianni Schicchi on March 21. A model to which Moore might have applied herself with profit was provided by Ponselle in her Norma.* Hers was vocal work, said Henderson, which matched the oft-flouted “tradition of the Metropolitan,” and showed that “the ripening of her tal- ent has been the result of a growing sincerity of purpose and earnest study.” In his opinion, her “Casta diva” was a “genuinely beautiful piece of singing,” though her mastery of recitative lagged behind her command of the melodic passages. The vari- able cast offered an excellent Oroveso* by Pinza, a capable Adalgisa* by Telva, and a questionable Pollione* by Lauri- Volpi. Serafin’s ensemble was greatly praised, especially the sing- ing of the Setti-trained chorus, which, Henderson thought, “sang better than it had ever sung in an Italian opera.” Urban was the designer. Norma was heard twenty-one times during this and the next four seasons. Operas and Artists, 1927— 1928 399 The illusion of Turandot as a popular if not a critical success was fostered by its choice for the opening on October 31. The profusion of money is attested by two occurrences of the time: a subscriber who found himself unable to attend the perform- ance advertised his seventh-row tickets for sale at fifty dollars apiece (the District Attorney, Tuttle, could not take action be- cause the season rate specified no price for the opening-night tickets); and an arrival of well-dressed patrons so heavy that smoke from the photographer’s flash pans seeped into the Thirty- ninth Street corridor and a fire alarm was turned in. Henderson now thought that the score "babbles but childishly of a grown up passion,” that it was musically “all dressed up with no place to go.” Liu* was better sung by Guilford than it had been by Atwood, the cast of Jeritza, Lauri-Volpi, and De Luca remaining as before. By contrast with the failure of Turandot to fulfill its large promise was the success of La Rondine in fulfilling its modest one when the Puccini comedy was given for the first time on March 10. In conformity with what Gatti declared to be Puccini’s second thought after the Monte Carlo premiere in 1918, the role of Prunier,* written for a baritone, was sung by tenor Tokatyan, who made rich comedy of the posturing poet. Additional expert playing by Bori (Magda*), Fleischer (Li- sette* ) , and Gigli (Ruggero* ) made a light, charming experience of the entertaining score, effectively directed by Bellezza. Hen- derson warned his readers that La Rondine must be accepted “for what it is . a spruce and amusing afternoon off of a genius.” Considering his further valuation of it as “a vivacious, high-class musical play” mingling farce and tender emotions in “delectable proportions,” it is surprising that it has not been heard since Bori retired in 1935-6. A stunning ballroom scene (Urban’s) was frequently used to dress the Metropolitan stage on ceremonial occasions. Something of quality was expected from Madonna Imperia (a treatment of Balzac’s La Belle Imperia ) when Franco Alfano’s one-acter was heard on February 8. These were expectations based not on his completion of Turandot, but rather on his im- pressive Risurrezione, but they were ill founded in any case. Hen- derson described it as “a melancholy waste of drab dullness,” and Gilman scorned Novak’s scenery as resembling “a parlormaid’s 400 The Metropolitan Opera dream of the haunts of opulent debauchery.” Muller was ill-cast as Donna Imperial the best singing being done by Frederick Jagel (new this season) as Filippo.* Pinza was the Chancellor,* and Serafin conducted. Pinza had one of the notable successes of his rising career as Dodon* in a revival of Le Coq d’ or that com- pleted the double bill, for Talley’s voice (with which she had earned $350,000 in a two-year coast-to-coast barnstorming since her debut) was more pinched than ever, her singing of the “Hymn to the Sun” breaking precedent by drawing no applause at all. This was the last appearance of the work in its pantomimed form (Galli, Bonfiglio, Bartik, Kosloff, and De Leporte were the principal dancers). At its reappearance in 1936 the conventional form was utilized. The inordinate number of double bills favored by Gatti was further extended by a combination of Korngold’s Violanta and Humperdinck’s Hansel und Gretel, first given on November 6. A predecessor by four years of Die tote Stadt, the work of the seventeen-year-old Korngold had more of the manner of Strauss, less of the matter of Korngold, than was thought desirable. Jeritza repeated, with less effect, the Violanta* she had sung first in Vienna, and there were fine performances by Kirchhoff as Alfonso* and Whitehill as Simone Trovai.* Urban was the de- signer for this work, as well as for the following Hansel, which re- mained one of his durable legacies to the Metropolitan. The spacious wood scene, particularly, has enhanced the pathos of any Hansels and Gretels who strayed into it for the next twenty- odd years. On this occasion it was two of the best, Fleischer as a hoydenish Hansel, Mario as a singularly ingratiating Gretel.* Schiitzendorf (Peter), Wakefield (Gertrude*), and Dorothee Manski, who made her debut as the Witch* (d), were all excel- lent. Bodanzky conducted both scores. Manski was one of the most versatile German singers added to the company in this period, but the season produced three others, of whom Richard Mayr was the most celebrated, Greta Stiick- gold the freshest talent, and Gertrude Kappel the most welcome. Mayr was a potent Pogner* in Die Meistersinger on November 2, and Stiickgold as Eva* impressed Henderson with her “fresh and most agreeable voice.” She was called upon almost immediately to prove her ability as a German soprano by singing Aida* on No- Operas and Artists , 1927-1928 401 vember 8. This produced no strong reaction in the press, whose adjectives of mild approval were pre-empted by the debut of Frederick Jagel as Rhadames* (d). Mayr and Stiickgold were heard as Ochs* and Octavian* in Der Rosenkavalier on Novem- ber 17, also as the King* and Elsa* in Lohengrin on Novem- ber 30. In his most famous part, Mayr was the best Ochs* New York had seen, if hardly any longer in the prime of his remark- able voice. He later sang the Landgraf* in Tannhduser and Hunding in Die Walkilre, always as “the really authoritative artist” Henderson had pronounced him at his debut, if with variable vocal sound. Stiickgold had Rethberg, Muller, and Jeritza to contend with for prominence in a generally similar repertory, and it took a while for her qualities to be noted. In the Lohengrin noted above, Everett Marshall made his debut as the Herald* (d), an experience he turned to more practical pur- poses when he was employed in George White’s Scandals to sing “That’s Why Darkies were Born.” Kappel was hardly a singer of historic eminence, but she was greatly preferable to Larsen-Todsen, especially as Isolde* (d), the role of her debut on January 16. Henderson pronounced it, on the strength of the first act alone, “an exceptionally good impersonation,” which was slightly misleading. Isolde was Rap- pel's best role, the first act itself the best part of it. The same writer paid tribute to her “uncommon command of the piano and moderato which brought really beautiful qualities” from her voice, which in Act I of Isolde she used like a liedersinger. Kap- pel sang all the Briinnhildes during the month of February, also Leonore* in Fidelio on March 14— “generally beautiful singing,” wrote Henderson, “and sometimes ravishing”— and Kundrv* in Parsifal on April 6. In all efforts her intelligence was unrelenting, her artistry compelling, her limitations those of a voice ample rather than heroic, lovable rather than impressive. The poorish impression of her Kundry was in part due to lack of physical attraction, in part to a treatment by Bodanzky described by Henderson as “apathetic and resolutely industrious by turns.” This conductor gave the first official signs of the surfeit with opera which led to his “farewell” a year or so later by giving com- mand of Siegfried to Serafin for the first time on February 18. The quieter episodes went with unusual lyric emphasis, and the 402 The Metropolitan Opera whole profited from the freshening effect of restudy under a new conductor. The big climaxes, however, did not strike most as truly Wagnerian. On March 7 the Briinnhilde was Elena Ra- kowska, who, in addition to possessing a limited voice and a small sense of style, was the conductor’s wife. She had earlier appeared as Rachel* (d) in La Juive on January 4, and she later sang Santuzza creditably, but she was ill-suited for major Wagner parts. With Melchior a lamented and Taucher an unlamented ab- sentee, Laubenthal and Kirchhoff were an unvaried diet in the tenor roles for Wagner this season. Thus the casting (save for Kappel as Fricka* in Das Rheingold on February 24) differed little from that of the preceding season. Fred Patton, an Ameri- can baritone, was Donner* (d) in the Ring prelude. Of notable interest was Tibbett’s Wolfram* in Tannhauser on Decem- ber 17, a role he often sang with suavity and expressiveness there- after. This pointed a way toward such other lyric baritone roles as Sachs and the Wanderer, which, regrettably, Tibbett chose to ignore in favor of the more strenuous Amonasro, Rigoletto, and Scarpia. The Metropolitan’s flickering interest in Meyerbeer was stimu- lated momentarily with a revival of LeProphete on December 31, in which Martinelli sought further to conquer the Caruso reper- tory. In Henderson’s view “he ascended to loftier heights than he had ever reached” as John of Leyden,* in a manful exhibition of artistry. The cast was otherwise divided among those with voices and those with style, only Martinelli, Matzenauer (Fides) , and Pinza (Zacharias*) providing both. Rothier knew how to sing Oberthal, but his sound was hollow; Schiitzendorf was a compromise in both respects; and Leonora Corona (Bertha*) had a voice, but little vitality. There was Urban scenery, and Bodanzky conducted. Corona, Texas-born (Cohron, originally), with a voluptuous voice and a figure to match, had rather more continental back- ground than most American novices of this period. Thus, she made her debut as Leonora* in 11 Trovatore on November 24, later singing Tosca and Gioconda. The big voice was never dis- ciplined as it might have been, and its promise remained largely unfulfilled. Vettori and Jeritza were other Toscas this season, the Operas and Artists, ig2j—ig28 403 latter singing hers on November 9 with blond locks and a picture hat. This was the year also of Jeritza’s Carmen* on January 13, with the Urban settings that remained in use till the Gerard production of 1952. She was vigorous, eye-catching, picturesque, but, in Henderson’s view, "with all her energy she did not seem to get far beneath the surface” of the part. French was also a trial for her, and the voice responded rather stridently. Johnson was Jos£, Tibbett a passable Escamillo,* and Fleischer a credit- able Micaela.* By contrast with Toscanini’s practice, Hasselmans indulged such changes of cast as Bori, Mario, and Morgana as Micaela, Basiola and Pinza* as Escamillo, Martinelli and John- son as Jos6— ' with the purpose, as such changes traditionally are, of stimulating attendance. In addition to his expert Escamillo, Pinza added to Oroveso in Norma and Zacharias in Le Prophete an impersonation of Don Basilio in II Barbiere on January 2 which attracted much more attention than it had received the year before. Henderson pro- nounced it "one of the best impersonations . . . since the days of fidouard de Reszke. . . . He sang the famous 'La Calumnia’ with a deadly seriousness which carried the air to its exact point.” Those who saw Pinza’s Basilio but a few years ago will absorb, from this comparison, that what he did was what made the “Golden Age” golden. He was an actor who could sing, a singer who could act. The extensive repertory that provided, in steady rotation, such persistent projects as Boris, L’ Amor e dei tre re, Pelleas, and Der Rosenkavalier was amended by Puccini’s Manon Lescaut and Mozart’s Cost fan tutte, both absent for two seasons or more. Alda, Gigli, Scotti, and Didur appeared in the Puccini score, which was conducted by Serafin. Cost was originally scheduled for mid-March, but Easton’s illness, and then Ludikar’s, required several postponements. One, on March 24, caused a change of opera, the dread occurrence Gatti had avoided for three years. In the end Cost was given but once, on April 1, and then Bo- danzky was ill, Paul Eisler conducting. With Fleischer as Dora- bella* and Ludikar as Don Alfonso* (Easton, Bori, De Luca, and Meader were as before) , the score had its last Metropolitan performance for nearly a quarter-century. Jagel’s lengthy career as a tenor of all work was typified by his 404 The Metropolitan Opera first season, which began with Rhadames* (cl) on November 8, and continued with Pinkerton,* Kdgardo.* PoUione* in Norma, Filippo Mala* in Madonna Impend, and Cavaradossi.® None of these roles was sung with sensuous tone, but it would be unfair to say one was worse than another. Whether for Rodolfo, f lerod in Salome, or Peter Grimes, Jagel has been willing and able for a quarter-century. Louise Homer returned to the role of her debut twenty-eight years before to sing Anmeris in Aula on Decem- ber 13, and later shared the honors of a Giuamda with Ponselle. Gigli, Ruffo, and Pinza on December 30, < It her oddities included Bohnen as Tonio* in I Pagliacei on February 1 3 (he added hand springs and cartwheels to the scoring), and Rethberg as San tuzza* in Cavalleria on December zU. Midseason marked the final rebuff of Otto Kahns plans for a new theater, and the Fifty-seventh Street site was put up for sale on February 19. Talk continued, but it had little foundation in fact or in serious purpose. Meanwhile, on the flood tide of what Henderson described as ‘"the two a day business, income and profit amounted to amazing heights. I he former was > 3. pba • r , the latter $144,378. u)i8~upt) The appearance of four contemporary operas in the immediate aftermath of Kahn’s failure to make good his promise <>t a new opera house suggests, in a historical perspective, some iclatum ship. 'I'lie evident one seems to he that despite Gatti •> low opm ion of contemporary operas or, at least, of then jH-tfoun im e at the box office— it was the accessible way to give to hue . . to the old stage, if no new one was available. Among them, the works lingered for a total of twenty three performances. The choice of Die agvptmhe Helena to u prr .ru? Strauss was debatable but logical, as it was the newest of hi. works unheard in New York. Ktenek's fmmv Spiel t Auf was a reigning sensation in central F.urope, and thus of legal mute tu tcrest. As for Respighi’s La Campana summer:, a .nul Pu/.HIi'n Fra Gherardo, they balanced the novelties math between work, from cither side of the Alps. For the hard-working, perhaps met -working Rod.ut. 4 y . lb - Operas and Artists , 1928-1929 405 aegyptische Helena was in the nature of a farewell gesture to Strauss. It was announced shortly before its premiere on Novem- ber 6 that he would leave the Metropolitan at the end of the season, his fourteenth. The further news, however, was not re- assuring. Rather than Bruno Walter, Otto Klemperer, Erich Kleiber, Fritz Busch, or Leo Blech, his replacement was Josef Rosenstock, from the modest theater in Wiesbaden. Little as the musical press knew of him, the public knew less. Both were to be illuminated in time. For some admirers of Strauss, The Egyptian Helen had a fair share of merit; others saw it as still another downward step from Der Rosenkavalier, Ariadne and Die Frau ohne Schatten. None considered Hofmannsthal’s book anything but a liability. Hen- derson said that Metropolitan history had offered some sorry librettos, but “none more puerile, more futile, or less interesting than this.” The genius of Strauss flamed in the orchestral score, but all it surrounded was “platitudes of Dr. Strauss’s wearied and aging muse.” Jeritza, who had been the first Helena* in Vienna, had little grateful music. Fleischer, who did, as Aithra,* delivered a fine performance. Laubenthal was a poor Menelaus,* and was replaced after the first performance by Kirchhoff. Whitehill (Altair*) andTelva (Muschel*) were the other principals. After the premiere the part of Hermione* (badly done by Helen Eisler, and spoiling the final curtain) was deleted. Urban was the de- signer. In all, the critics’ time might have better been spent at Carnegie Hall, where Stokowski was conducting the first sym- phony of a Russian named Szostakowicz. Since Rethberg, the first Helena in Dresden, had been out- ranked by Jeritza for honors in Strauss, her participation in the Respighi treatment of Hauptmann’s Die versunkene Glocke pre- served peace in the operatic household while favoring a promi- nent Italian contemporary. Her Rautendelein* was charmingly sung on November 24, though a little portly for an elf. At that, slight musical character emerged from Respighi’s treatment of the subject, which would have been more suitable to Weber or the young Wagner. For the cast of Martinelli (Heinrich*), De Luca (the Nickelmann*), Pinza (the Priest*), and Guilford (Magda*), the conducting of Serafin and the scenery of Urban, 406 7 7 k * Metropolitan Opera the highest praise was spoken by the composer himself. Fifteen minutes of the score was eliminated before the repetition of November 30, in which Manskt was Magda. 8 The general content with Urban’s work was marred In fault- finding when fanny Spiel t A uf had its introduction cm Janu- ary 19. The satiric point of the plot was lost »» a decor parish rather than gay. and though it was nut Urban's fault that the Metropolitan lacked the revolving stage to provide the necessary quick changes, what he provided did not atom* tor this short- coming. Also, to avoid offense to white Negro sensitivities, fanny was portrayed by Bohncn as a white entertainer m blackface rather than as the Negro of the original, Bohnen’s Jonny* was grotesque and tunny: Tibhett played him with rather more believable character when he took the part on February 27. hr airy ease, it was evident that, tor American ears, Kfenek’s jazz flavor was synthetic, his parody of fusing, rather naive. Fasten was prim and heavy as Anita, * the pnuup.il honors again going to Fleischer foi hu effective work as Yvonne.’ 8 Schorr (l)auiello* ) and Ktrehhotf Max 8 ) were both miscast. Meadcr was excellent as the Motel Manager A Bo danzky conducted. Aside from l ibbed, the alternates did not improve the kind of performance that prevailed ! uul tenth rl for Kirchhoff. Manski for Fusion. Seiutt/emhuf for Schon About the only fortunate fact was that they were singing German, n*»r English. As far as its quality can be discerned from wh if was written about it, Pizzefti's Fra Oherardn was the wot thirst of these m novations. At least. Gilman honored She book Pi/zdti had writ- ten for himself as the expression of 4 "poet it nature" with “strong convictions." though its exposition on the stage w 1 . not “telling,” the music being ‘’essentially -.triilr" The vocal hue was in the new mode of spasmodic, almost "-.oug speech" writ ing, with an excessive emphasis on declamation Henderson de- scribed the reaction of the first audience, on Man h ?, 1, as "ap t thctic,” perhaps because the principals Mullet t Mario! a* , Johnson (Cherardo* ) . Pinza (Old Man 8 and the Podest.H had rather hopeless vocal tasks. Keratin conducted. and ft: scenery was by Urban. Three further performances were all for Fra Gherardo. Operas and Artists , 1928-1929 407 Amid these signs of apathy or worse for the works of Strauss, Respighi, Krenek, and Pizzetti, the appearance of The King’s Henchman in a third season, on February 16, marked a new level of favor for a work by an American. Easton, Johnson, and Tibbett were the principals, and on March 28 Wilfred Pelletier, previously an assistant conductor, was in charge of the perform- ance. Easton also had a try at Turandot,* on March 16, but did not succeed where Jeritza had failed. The infrequent occasion to compliment a singer as “the best the Metropolitan had seen” came in this season on March 11, when Bori sang the second of several performances of Manon in this season. Henderson’s opinion, which was emphatic, was that Bori’s Manon was “undoubtedly the best the Metropolitan has ever known.” He also complimented the luscious-sounding Des Grieux* of Gigli, De Luca’s sound Lescaut, and the beauti- fully acted, throatily sung Comte des Grieux of Rothier. Hassel- mans gave special care to the preparation, for which there was new scenery by Urban— still in use. If anything, the “fastidious taste” and “aptness of gesture” Bori provided grew more singu- larly Manon rather than Bori for the next half-dozen years. Several good deeds of the recent past were given renewed pub- lic prominence: Bohnen’s classic Caspar in Der Freischiitz on February 23, with Fleischer singing a delightful Anchen,* and Muller and Laubenthal as before, and Ernani on December 17, when Pinza, as Don Ruy Gomez,* clearly outsang Ponselle, Martinelli, and Ruffo. “Continent” was Henderson’s word for Pinza, “more energetic than elegant” his phrase for Ponselle. Those who heard the Metropolitan’s last Freischiitz (ever), on April 1, also heard a lovely Agathe* from Stiickgold. The notation that Lauritz Melchior returned after one year’s absence to sing the elder Siegfried* in Gdtterddmmerung on March 14 and Tristan* on March 20 should suggest a roaring welcome for the gifted artist, but both, truthfully, passed rather quietly. Melchior was still an unformed performer whose lack of physical attraction put a double burden on his singing. In both parts it was considered highly promising, but not more. Kappel was his first Metropolitan Isolde, as she was the Briinnhilde in Gdtterddmmerung. Melchior was scheduled for the presumptive “farewell” of Bodanzky on April 13, but Laubenthal took his 408 The Metropolitan Opera place as Tristan. This was one of several occurrences that made parting less sorrow, more sweet, than it might have been other- wise: Kirchhoff was indisposed for Lohengrin on November 10 and was replaced by a less than secondary singer, Max Altglass; on January 10 Kappel lost her voice just before Gotterdcirn- merung, and Claussen took her place. A week before, when Stiickgold could not perfonn Sieglinde in Die Walkilre , a whole- sale rearrangement transposed Easton to Sieglinde (from Briinn- hilde), and Matzenauer to Briinnhilde (from Fricka), with Claussen as Fricka. On another occasion Jcritza was Sieglinde with Matzenauer (Fricka) and Easton (Briinnhilde). On the whole, it was a less than happy winter for Kappel, who found a full Metropolitan season rather heavy going, especially when required to sing Ortrud* in Lohengrin on March 16 amid Isoldes and Briinnhildes. Stiickgold, too, had a share of vocal troubles, with Jeritza as her reluctant replacement as Octavian (a role she had not sung since 1924) in Der Rosenkavcdier on Janu- ary 4. One can read Bodanzky’s farewell statement, then, as one chooses: “I shall not say I am sorry to give up opera; my work in the future lies elsewere. In leaving the Metropolitan 1 am leaving the greatest opera in the world.” Bodanzky burned no bridges, slammed no doors shut with these words. Scrafin again directed Siegfried, and Schumann-! Ieink returned for another Erda in Das Rheingold, an amazing personality at seventy, but hardly a potent voice. No major new artists were brought to New York in this season, though Marek Windheim, who made his debut as the Lamp- lighter* (d) in Manon Lescaut, came to ever greater use as Meader’s service in the lighter Wagner tenor roles dwindled. Grace Divine made her debut as a Musician* (d) on the same occasion, and the American sopranos of dramatic intentions were made more numerous by the addition of Clara Jacobo and Dreda Aves. Both made debuts as Leonora* in 11 Trovatorc, on November 8 and April 6 respectively. Jacobo also sang Santuzza and A'ida with big sound, but not more than conventional style. The reclame of Moore’s debut having vanished, site found her forward progress somewhat slow. As Juliette* on February 14 to Johnson’s Romeo, she was admired by Henderson for “a very agreeable quality of voice,” but taxed for acting “innocent of all Operas and Artists, 1928-1929 409 theatrical guile” and for an impersonation in which “the poetic essence of Juliette was entirely missing.” Hassclmans conducted. Chaliapin’s final season with the company was neither adver- tised nor celebrated, but he did not sing again after a Mcpliis- tophelcs in Faust on March 20, with Lewis, Lauri-Volpi, and Tibbctt. Boris lapsed after his departure, which did not offend those who agreed with I lenderson’s judgment that the perform- ance of March 4 was “lame.” The rumors of a new production were spurs to the hope that it would be something more than “a delineation by Mr. Chaliapin with accessories.” Bcllczza con- ducted this performance and the only repetition, on March 14 . Two singers who made no secret of their intention not to return were Ruffo and Talley. The latter’s last performance was in Cleveland on May 9. There were days when the characterization of the Metropolitan as "the greatest opera in the world” was honestly justified, as in the opening L’Amore dei tre re on October 29 with Ponselle, Martinclli, Pinza a splendid Arehibaldo,* Danisc as Manfrcdo, and Sera fin conducting. A Tosca with Corona, Tokatyan, and Danisc, an Aida with M filler, Claussen, and Jagcl, a T rovatore with Aves, Basiola, and Lauri-Volpi were something else. The Herald Tribune on April 13 gave irritated voice, editori- ally, to discontent with the limited resources of the Metropoli- tan’s staging, “a lack of coordinat ion, of authoritative direction,” and "over- -frequent appearance of fourth-rate singers in impor- tant roles.” No rebuttal was offered. On returning from Europe in July, Geraldine Farrar ' described the Metropolitan as “a well- regulated stock company,” giving "the same limited repertory year after year in the same way.” The "limited repertory” em- braced forty seven works in this season, with more than two hun- dred performances (including those in Brooklyn and Philadel- phia) in twenty-four weeks. The income— $3,1 11,805— was the greatest ever, the profit $90,937. 1 One of het old colleagues returned in what Henderson called "aston- ishingly good condition" when Johanna Gadski sang Isolde in the Man- hattan Opera House on January 14. The ill favored Carl Braun was King Mark, and Ernest Knock conducted a cast otherwise inconsequential. Gadski was also heard on the 17th as the Watkiire Brunnhikle and on the 22nd in CUitterdamnwrung, hut the strenuous schedule was too much for her, and the company disbanded. 410 The Metropolitan Opera 1929-1930 The perpetual question of “the new opera house” was in the mind of at least one listener early in the season that began on October 28, 1929. That was Henderson, who had a new but by no means irrelevant thought to father the wish. “We need a new opera house,” he wrote on October 30, “if only to get rid of the ghosts that haunt the old one.” The provocation for this was the previous evening’s Die Meister singer, in which Henriette Wake- field sang “a routine Magdalena.” His thought continued: “For old operagoers, memories of Marianne Brandt and Ernestine Schumann-Heink will not down.” Conducting “one of the most oppressive performances” of Die Meistersinger in many years was, for the first time since 1915, a man other than Bodanzky. Not prepossessing in size, Josef Rosenstock did not command, on the podium, an authority he lacked off it. To inquiries of “Why Rosenstock?” the Metropoli- tan management had a series of stock answers: Bruno Walter wanted fifty thousand dollars, which was too much (but not for Serafin; see page 13); Klemperer was not expensive, but his de- mands were in other ways “unreasonable”; when Blech or Kleiber or another man of recognized abilities was approached, his con- tract was immediately extended wherever he happened to be employed. So it was Rosenstock. “Conservative” was the kindest word for his way with Die Meistersinger, which, with Stiickgold, Lau- benthal, Whitehill, and Mayr, had a share of cordial applause, the New York audience being polite in all circumstances. Had his Rosenkavalier on November 4 been more vital, things might have worked out differently. Henderson found it “heavy with poppy and madragora,” for which the conductor— “a well schooled Kappelmeister with militaristic tendencies”— was less to blame than a cast that would have resisted “the imagination and temperament of a Nikisch.” The names of Stiickgold (Marschal- lin*), Jeritza, Fleischer, and Mayr read well, but Stiickgold’s Marschallin was pallid at its first venture, Jeritza was ill at ease as Octavian, and Mayr’s day as a proper voice for Ochs was draw- ing to a close. Rosenstock continued in orderly command of Die Walkure Operas and Artists, 1929-193° 411 on November 9, Die Meistersinger on November 14 (with Fleischer a lovely-sounding Eva* ) , and a Rosenkavalier on the 15th, a Saturday. Over the week-end Rosenstock developed fur- ther symptoms of what the Metropolitan management described as a “nervous breakdown/’ and his “wish” to be relieved of his contract was granted on the 1 8th. Those who had tried to make clear that Rosenstock would not do hardly expected to get Bodanzky all over again. But the “work in the future” to which Bodanzky had so confidently al- luded six months before had apparently not matured to his satis- faction, and he was available in New York when Rosenstock found the going hard. Only one shaft of light gave a bright touch to the announcement of Bodanzky ’s re-engagement. He would conduct an annual uncut Ring cycle. The specification that his contract was “for a number of years” actually came to mean the rest of his life. Although his work took an upward surge with the coming, first of Leider and Olszewska, then of Flagstad, it was an enduring indictment of Bodanzky that he did little, in all this time, to affect an improvement where improvement was pos- sible— in the playing of the orchestra. It remained a task undone until George Szell was engaged. In the interval between Rosenstock’s exit and Bodanzky’s re- entry Karl Riedel, an assistant conductor for six years, directed Lohengrin on November 20 and Die Walkure on November 23, the latter with Manski as Briinnhilde.* An efficient caretaker of someone else’s performance, Riedel never had full opportunity to show greater capacity. Rosenstock was now able to travel, and he left for Germany with a letter of good wishes from the Metro- politan’s orchestra. On November 30 Bodanzky took three bows before giving the down beat for a performance of Der Rosen- kavalier, and the Metropolitan’s German repertory resumed its previous course. No provision had been made for a German novelty in this season, and the only restoration, other than the usually deleted portions of the Ring, was Fidelio on January 29. Elisabeth Ohms was a good-looking Leonore,* but no heroic-voiced one. A usual alignment of Laubenthal, Schorr, Bohnen, and Fleischer pre- vailed, and Urban’s scenery was again used. There was pleasure, however, in hearing Beethoven’s music, especially on those occa- 412 The Metropolitan Opera sions which placed it in juxtaposition to Don Giovanni , which had its first Metropolitan performance in twenty-one years on November 29. If Eames, Farrar, Bonci, and Scotti— -also Mahler— were miss- ing, there was ample promise in the cast of Gigli, Rethberg, Pon- selle, Pinza, and Fleischer. But even the literal promise was not fulfilled at the first performance, for Ponselle was ill, and Corona sang Donna Anna.* Musical promise, it soon became evident, was for the future rather than the present, for Serafin conveyed the surface of Mozart’s score well, but not its depths; Pinza’s was initially a heavy voice for Don Giovanni,* and the only real Mozart style was provided by Fleischer as Zerlina.* It was a be- ginning, however, if one, in Henderson’s words, '“not wholly encouraging.” Gilman also viewed it unenthusiastically, crediting Pinza with “surviving his ordeal more happily than one had sup- posed he would,” but finding him without “the elegance, the grace, the adroitness, the magnetic charm” a successful Don re- quired. Ponselle’s Donna Anna* was finally heard on January 2, when she sang “Non mi dir” very beautifully, the “Honor” aria less well. Thanks to Gatti’s persistent if sparing attention to the work in the next five seasons, Pinza had the opportunity to im- prove steadily, until, with such conductors as Szell, Busch, and Walter, he became a Don of sufficient stature to carry a perform- ance. Urban’s tasteful production (especially the interiors) made a handsome picture of the stage, and the arias were sung, as they have been since, before a forecurtain, downstage. The extensive experiment of the previous year with contempo- rary novelties was not repeated, nor has it been since. The official position that the world’s resources of new works offered nothing for the Metropolitan may be debated, but evidence to the con- trary is hardly overwhelming. Mention of Menotti and Britten is not discreditable to the Metropolitan, whose recent repertory has included one work of each. For variety, Gatti turned this year to lesser works by two masters who had served the Metropolitan well. Simon Bocca- negra, then enjoying a new surge of interest in Europe, might have been a better choice to represent Verdi than Luisa Miller, but the production of the latter on December 21 illuminated some recesses of history and the vocal prowess of Ponselle (Luisa Operas and Artists, 1929-1930 413 Miller*), De Luca (Miller*), Lauri-Volpi (Rodolfo*), and Tancredi Pasero (Count Walter*) . The public response was en- couraging, but the adverse business trend of the Metropolitan in the next season limited the appeal of Luisa Miller. Serafin con- ducted, and the scenery was by Urban. Rimsky-Korsakov’s Sadko, with a brilliant decor by Soudeikine, elaborate if conventional ballets staged by Rosina Galli and August Berger, and such melodic attractions as the “Chanson indoue” and “The Song of the Viking Guest,” was one of Gatti’s happiest choices when it was introduced on January 25. Hen- derson thought the music (aside from the prominent arias) “mostly of small charm,” and doubted that the “beautifully made” orchestral score would appeal to American tastes. For whatever reasons, including Johnson’s Sadko,* Fleischer’s Volk- hova,* Bourskaya’s Lioubova,* Gustafson’s Norseman,* and the Hindu of Diaz,* the production was sufficiently attractive to be given sixteen times in three seasons, a return much higher than provided by the average of such investments. Also more than moderately successful was the restoration of La Fanciulla del West on November 2 after an absence since 19x3-14. Gilman was strongly of the opinion that the compul- sion given to the original by Belasco and Toscanini was absent, the work therefore lacking whatever interest it once had pos- sessed; but Henderson declared the “Girl” welcome “because so many much worse” operas had been seen since it was new. No pretense of realistic drama remained, with a truly operatic em- phasis on Jeritza’s Minnie* extending to what Henderson decried as “rancid melodrama,” with the cowboys of old no more than “brigands of Abruzzi.” Conviction was likewise lacking in Marti- nelli’s Dick Johnson,* Tibbett’s Ranee,* and Pasero’s Ashby,* but by operatic standards they sufficed. Ernst Lert had charge of the stage for the first time, and Bellezza conducted. On Janu- ary 10 Johnson* was Johnson in fact, and later replacements in- cluded Corona as Minnie* and Jagel as Johnson.* The produc- tion was executed by Novak. The growing stature of Bori was honored by a venture on March 1 with Louise, not seen since Farrar had sung the title role in 1920-1. Although its settings were newer by years than those for the Ring, Louise was freshly produced in an Urban con- 414 The Metropolitan Opera ception that had more future than current use. For all the merits of Bori, her Louise* was a characterization Henderson described as “wavering in outline and . . . wholly uncertain of purpose/’ the production as a whole being “regrettably weak and dull.” Antonin Trantoul was a French enough tenor, but an uncompelling Julien,* and neither Rothier (the Father*) nor Telva (the Mother*) made much of their parts. Whitehill’s Father was an improvement on March 10, but the lack of impact, beginning with Hasselmans’s conducting, was not redeemed by such a change. Bori apparently decided that Louise was not for her after three repetitions. When it was next given, in 1938, Moore was Louise. Pinza gave further proof of his versatility in this season when L’Elisir d’amore was ventured for the first time since Caruso’s death, and the tall basso’s oily, amusing Dr. Dulcamara* gave a new interest to Donizetti’s work on March 21. Gigli was a fool- ish enough Nemorino and one of powerful vocal virtues. Mor- gana as Adina* was a passable replacement for Fleischer, who was ill. De Luca was Belcore, and Serafin conducted. Novak was the scenic artist. As the season’s subscription books had been closed well be- fore the market collapse at the end of October, the advance of ticket prices to a new high level of $8.25 did not affect the huge audience that attended the Manon Lescaut of October 28, in which Bori returned to the role of her debut seventeen years be- fore. As the season progressed and the downward trend of the market accelerated, fears were expressed that the announcement of the Wagner cycle might encounter a serious lack of interest. Actually, however, business was better by fourteen per cent than for the cycle of the previous year, a reaction attributed in part to the promise of uncut performances. Das R heingold, on Feb- ruary 21, showed little deviation from the past: its uninterrupted length is but two and one half hours, and it was usually given at full length. Kirchhoff was a wavery Loge (his long years of sing- ing were becoming an increasing liability), Bohnen an ostenta- tious Wotan. Ohms was the Briinnhilde* of Die Walkiire and Siegfried, with Kappel in Gdtterddmmerung. An early commit- ment in Europe subtracted Bohnen from the Metropolitan com- pany in late February, and Hagen* was sung by Siegfried Tap- Operas and Artists, 1929-193° 415 polet, a burly, husky-voiced Alsatian who performed with credit : if little distinction for the next four years. ; Much was expected from Ohms, who was admired for good j looks, intelligent action, and serious artistry when she was heard * as the Gotterdammerung Briinnhilde* (d) on January 17. Hen- ' derson found her voice “thin at the top and hollow at the bottom, \ but of very beautiful quality in the medium,” and doubted that • she had sufficient volume for the Metropolitan auditorium. Her ; ; ample experience carried her through all the expectable roles in a matter of weeks— Leonore in Fidelio, Venus in Tannhduser, Isolde, Ortrud, all the Briinnhildes, and Kundry. Those of rela- tively narrow range (Venus and Ortrud) she sang very well, the 7 others in a way to suggest that she was not quite the singer she £ had been. For this year’s Parsifals (first on April 16) the con- ductor was Serafin. His venture with this intractable Wagner ji score was less satisfying than his Siegfried. § Of the new careers initiated this season, the longest was that .& of Gladys Swarthout, who was heard first as La Cieca* in La Gio- i conda on November 15. Her handsome presence and well-placed 7 voice were admired in this role, as in a series of smaller parts— ; Stephano in Romeo, Siebel in Faust, Federica in Luisa Miller. ( The Faust, on February 1 3, was the two-hundredth in the history P 3 of the house. With Fleischer a German Marguerite and Trantoul a not too satisfying Faust* (d) , the landmark brought “memories . V tinged with regret” to Henderson. In his one-season tour Tran- ’ n : toul also was heard as Hoffmann, Julien, Rodolfo, and Don Jose, ?. showing on no occasion more than the “somewhat light and tenuous voice” Henderson noted at his debut. Augusta Oltra- *J bella was heard briefly as Musetta* (d) on November 18 and as f ■ Liu* in the season’s only Turandot on January 8. Tancredi Pasero, a well-schooled Italian basso, came to succeed Didur in f. many low roles beginning with Alvise* in La Gioconda on No- T, vember 1, and including Ashby in La Fanciulla del "West, Don % Pedro in L’Africaine, Ferrando in II Trovatore, Colline in La f. Boheme, and finally Oroveso in Norma. Metropolitan opportu- ) nities were offered to Santa Biondo as Nedda in I Pagliacci on ■' December 6 and Edward Ransome as Manrico in II Trovatore on y. f December 14, but both had more success with smaller touring £ j companies. f i V. i 7 I * § ' i % * i / A ■' A ; : v 4 U l I . A 416 The Metropolitan Opera The complications of critical coverage of New York’s music events prevented close attention to several new ventures that may be isolated in time, if not by quality. Rethberg added Leo- nora* in II Trovatore to her repertory on November 11; Grace Moore sang Manon* on December 21 and Marguerite in Faust on March 7; and on the final day of the season, April 19, Tibbett sang Germont* in La T raviata, which became one of his best roles. A trend of another sort could be discerned in the retirement of three singers of celebrity: Alda, 1 who sang last in Manon Lescaut on December 28, Galli-Curci, whose farewell role was Rosina in II Barbiere on January 24, and Matzenauer, who re- turned to the role of her debut when she retired after her Amneris in Aida on February 12. Mary Lewis and Frances Peralta were others who were not re-engaged. A week before the season’s end, Kahn announced that Gatti’s contract had been extended for another two years, assuring his direction of the Metropolitan until 1935. To the undercurrent of criticism in the press, Kahn responded that “the attendance of the public . . . this season was but slightly diminished.” This, however, did not do much to balance such a statement as Hen- derson’s, at the season’s end: “The faded works . . . have been performed over and over and over again, most of the time with mediocre singers going through their roles like so many robots.” “Dull and stupefying” were his words for the house specialty, Aida, in the post-Toscanini, post-Caruso epoch. A translation of Kahn’s description of the attendance ( “slightly diminished”) into financial terms shows the following: income was $3,052,395, or $59,410 less than the year before. For the first time in twenty years there was no profit. The loss was $14,743, or hardly enough to be considered a deficit. For that matter, it was not regarded as such by Gatti, who reckoned 1930-1 as his first unsuccessful season since 1910. But it was a straw in the wind that soon became a gale. 1 93 0_1 93 1 With $1,100,000 in the bank and twenty years of successful oper- ation in the books, the Metropolitan confidently began its forty- sixth season on October 27 with little thought of difficulty, none 1 Her marriage to Gatti had ended the previous year. Operas and Artists, 1930-1931 417 of debacle. It was time for another Aida opening (the last had been in 1924), and the attendance was set at 4,210. Recalling the old status of the opening as a social function, Henderson took note of the inordinately early date by saying: "It was for- merly regarded as the opening of the winter social season when the opera and the horse show arrived, but the lyric drama has pushed its initial date further back than the display of the highly exclusive horse.” The critic’s last reference (see above) to the company’s Aida as “dull and stupefying” was not materially altered by the work of Muller, Martinelli, Branzell, and De Luca, the once eminent baritone now being described as a “none too savage Amonasro [who] eschewed all fortes.” Serafin conducted. The hysterical fanfare that had sounded the approach of Marion Talley was all but absent when Lily Pons made her debut as Lucia* (d) on January 3, 1931. Bitter experience had convinced Gatti that press and public both enjoy making their own discoveries, and the hoped-for success of Pons had been a well-guarded secret ever since the Giovanni Zenatellos (he was the tenor, she was the contralto Maria Gay) had discovered Pons in a provincial French opera house and brought her to Gatti’s attention. Her starting fee was $450 a week, of which the Zena- tellos’ share was more than a trifle. The preparations for Pons’s debut could not escape some eaves- droppers’ attention, however, and the grapevine had been busy, resulting in a tighter wedge of standees for this Saturday matinee than might have been expected. But Gatti’s main purpose was achieved thanks in large part to Pons’s demonstration of "a voice of pure and pleasing quality and a technic far above the slovenly average of today.” Henderson further described her “Spargi d’amaro pianto” as a “piece of finished singing,” adding that “true intonation proved to be one of her valuable musical assets.” As for characterization, only Gerster and Sembrich had made Lucia something more than an automaton, and the lack was not held against her. In sequence came Gilda* on January 7, Rosina* on February 4, Olympia* in Hoffmann on February 11, and Philene* in Mignon on April 6. Her first Gilda was less well sung than the Lucia, but the cadenza ending “Caro nome” was sung well enough for Henderson to describe her as “Mr. Gatti's little Christmas gift from a kind providence.” By the time of her The Metropolitan Opera Philene an arduous schedule had made “thin and acid” a more accurate description for her tones than “pleasing,” but the zest and charm of her “polacca” drew a warm response from the au- dience. The favor she found then has not altered since, good days or bad. Bodanzky’s first full season of renewed activity brought two fresh undertakings, of which Der fliegende Hollander had not been heard since the last Conried season, and Von Suppe’s Boccaccio was the first of that composer’s works to be heard in the house. Had there been a way to combine them, a good deal of valuable time would have yielded more profit, for the Hol- lander is gloomier than most care about for a whole evening, Boccaccio giddier than many can endure at three acts’ length. Soudeikine’s handsome setting and the well-spoken Dutchman* of Schorr were principal virtues of the first performance on No- vember 1, in which Ivar Andresen made a strong impression in his debut as Daland.* What Gilman termed a “disconcerting blend of greatness and inferiority” in the score was, as ever, evi- dent, for all of Bodanzky’s “inspiring dramatic power and vital- ity.” Jeritza was a picturesque Senta,* rather strident in sound, Laubenthal an Erik* whose best effort Gilman thought “vocally distressing.” Telva sang Mary,* and Hans Clemens was the Steersman* (d) . The need for illusion in the staging of Act I was met by avoiding it. Six repetitions this season dwindled to two in the following one. Boccaccio in this season, like Donna Juanita in the next, was a venture keyed to Jeritza’s leggy frame and operetta background in the hope they could give favor to a kind of work not previously successful in the theater. Downes thought that she “scintillated” in the first performance on January 2, but Henderson described her singing as “tentative and at no time brilliant,” her acting as “uncertain.” Meader was an excellent Scalza,* Fleischer a suit- able Fiametta, with Kirchhoff as the Prince* and Morgana as Beatrice.* Accompaniments for the spoken dialogue had been provided by Bodanzky, who also interpolated a potpourri from Suppe’s Pique-Dame and Donna Juanita for Jeritza in the third act. His idiomatic conducting and the lavish designs of Urban were liked, but the venture disappeared after half a dozen further performances this season. Operas and Artists, 1930-1931 419 Likewise short-lived was an investigation of Mussorgsky’s The Fair at Sorochintzy in an Italian version by Nikolai Tcherepnin. Most auditors of the first performance, on November 29, de- cided the orchestral Night on Bare Mountain, used as a ballet in Act II, was the best music in the performance. Regard for other high spots was tempered by lack of cohesion, and residual pleasure further diminished by a motley cast of which only Bourskaya (Khivria*) had a Russian accent (unfortunately, for the Italian text). Pinza’s Tcherevik* “plainly came from Cala- bria, not from Podolio or Volhynia,” observed Henderson, and there were influences of other sorts in Muller’s Parassia,* Jagel’s Gritzko,* and Windheim’s Pastor’s Son.* August Berger’s Ho- pak* in Act III was best liked of the several ballets. Serafin con- ducted, and the staging was by Soudeikine. On December 29 Olga Didur, daughter of the basso, sang Parassia.* She had made her debut as Preziosilla* (d) (see page 420) . Following its premiere, The Fair at Sorochintzy was combined with Felice Lattuada’s Le Preziose ridicole, a one-act adaptation of Moliere’s Les Precieuses ridicules. At its introduction on De- cember 10 Henderson described it as “melodious and apt,” if “anything on earth but Moli&re.” Bori was a “bewitching” Madelon,* Tokatyan an amusing Mascarilla,* and Swarthout an attractive Cathos.* Pearl Besuner, a new soprano, sang Marotte,* with Basiola as Jodelet.* The scenery was designed by Robert Edmond Jones, and Bellezza conducted. Ernst Lert’s imagina- tive direction was above the Metropolitan average for the time. The bill was dropped after the four performances of this season. February 7, 1931 was a date notable in Metropolitan history not only for the premiere of Taylor’s long-awaited successor to The King’s Henchman, but also for the first influence of the Juilliard Foundation on Metropolitan affairs. Although the com- poser had been “commissioned” by the opera house to do a sec- ond work, he had been helped by a grant of $5,000 from the Juilliard in February 1928 (without specification as to purpose, but generally considered a spur to completion of the opera). Taylor’s instinct, in selecting for operatic treatment Constance Collier’s dramatization of the Du Maurier novel Peter Ibbetson, was generally endorsed. The former attitude of “not so bad,” however, for The King’s Henchman had perceptibly, if unin- 420 The Metropolitan Opera tentionally, veered to “not so good” for Ihhetson. Downes com- mended Taylor, obliquely, for writing music “that does not in- terfere with the unfolding of the story,” adding that he had “assembled a very affecting drama with slow music, and some fast music too.” Gilman, more outspoken in denunciation of what he considered a derivative and weak work, absorbed some heavy firing in correspondence from Walter Damrosch, to whom the work was dedicated. The skillful organization of Peter lbbetson and the prominent opportunities it gave to Tibbett as Colonel lbbetson* (the in- evitable temptation to call it Peter Tibbetson was not resisted), Bori as the Duchess of Towers,* and Johnson as Peter* assured audience interest for some time to come. What the critical listeners found wanting was a musical development, a personal accent, which would justify reference to a Taylor style. In the dream scene Claudio Frigerio was Pasquier,* Biondo was Marie,* and Doninelli was Madame Seraskier.* Of other char- acters, Telva was notably good as Mrs. Deane.* Serafin con- ducted, and the designer was Urban. Six performances each in this and the next season, and a total of four in Gatti’s last two seasons, added to Taylor’s record as the American composer most performed at the Metropolitan. Another attempt to popularize Iris, this time with Rethberg in the title role, found no more success than the previous one with Bori. The first performance, on March 7, with Gigli as Osaka,* De Luca as Kyoto,* and Pinza as the Father,* was followed by three others, to the same total of four as in 1914-1 5. In general, the singers were commended, but Henderson’s final opinion of Iris as “a pleasing work, not solid in musical content, narrow in style,” suggests its limitations. Bellezza conducted, and Novak provided the scenery. The same artist provided two scenic emendations when La Forza del destino was resumed on November 21 after an absence since 1927-8. The cloister scene was given in two settings, the latter part inside the church; and the third act opened with an exterior rather than inside the tent. Ponselle’s fine Leonora and Martinelli’s Alvaro were old friends, Pasero’s Abbot* a sturdy new one. Olga Didur sang Prezio- silla* (d) in her debut. This was directed by Serafin, as was a revival of William Tell on March 21, with Lauri-Volpi (Ar- Operas and Artists, 1930-193 1 421 nold*), Fleischer (Mathilde*), Pinza (Furst*) , Danise (Tell), and Fania Petrova (Hedwig*). None of the restorations attracted so much attention as the perennial Traviata when it was given on January 16 with Pon- selle as Violetta.* Some opinion took issue with the suitability of her voice for the music. Henderson found it “quite well enough suited” as vocalization went, but thought that only a woman of genius could pursue Ponselle’s conception successfully, and that she did not measure up to the description. Her mistake, in his opinion, was to ignore the essentially lyric quality of the role, introducing “spasmodic utterances” into “A hi fors e lui,” dragging out “Dite alia giovine” until it lay “cold and heavy” on the stage. Her death scene, transforming Verdi’s “plaintively pa- thetic conception into hard-breathed tragedy,” left the ending weakest, the first act her best. Lauri-Volpi and De Luca were the other principals, Serafin conducting. The Ponselle public took Henderson’s analysis as a pro-Bori position, and one wrote, chidingly: “Come now— which Violetta do you prefer— Pon- selle’s or Bori’s?” His published answer was: “Neither. Verdi’s.” Rethberg also ventured into strange territory when she sang Rachel* in La Juive on January 28. To Henderson’s mind she “had style and she showed feeling [but] the effort to conquer the strenuous utterances so plentifully scattered through the score may not benefit her singularly captivating voice.” The jus- tice of this opinion was all too soon confirmed. The downward trend of standards in other respects was noted in orchestral play- ing “frequently polytonal, something of which Halevy never dreamed.” On March 25 Rethberg was a disaffecting Marguerite* in Faust , and George Thill’s Faust* made the same critic won- der whether “a less romantic or winning” cavalier had ever been known in this theater. The tenor had made an unimpressive debut as Rom6o* (d) on January 10, and rarely performed to his Paris capacities at the Metropolitan. Of much more satisfaction was Tibbett’s Amonasro* in Aida on January 21, giving ever growing evidence of his large abilities. Also a change and an im- provement was Muller’s powerful Donna Elvira* in Don Gio- vanni on November 7, one of the best performances in a role singularly ill-favored at the Metropolitan. With Ponselle, Gigli, Pinza, and Fleischer as before was Serafin as conductor. Its three 422 The Metropolitan Opera performances were the only Mozart heard at the Metropolitan this season. The matinee performances of Wagner embraced not only the Ring, but a prefatory Fliegende Hollander on February 6, in which Bohnen sang Daland,* and a Meistersinger on the 12th distinguished by Branzell’s comely, well-sung Magdalene.* Fol- lowing the Ring, which deviated little from the previous year, with Kappel as the Siegfried Briinnhilde, Ohms as the others, the series ended with Tristan on March 20, with Kappel and Maria Ranzow (Brangane*). Melchior was now beginning to assert some of the mastery for which he became famous, causing Henderson to remark: “Lauritz Melchior looks more like a Tristan than some of those who have been seen here. He is a man of stalwart figure and bears himself well. His singing is what might be expected of the best type of ‘helden tenor.’ His voice is heavy but agreeable, and he sang . . . with excellent art in the treatment of light and shade.” He was also heard in the only Parsifal of the season, on April 3, once more conducted by Bo- danzky, who directed everything in the German repertory save an occasional Lohengrin entrusted to Riedel. One such occasion was January 5, when Manski was Elsa* and Andresen an impos- ing King Henry.* Several singers who remained with the company until playing time and personnel were drastically curtailed in 1933 made debuts in leading roles. On November 15 Fania Petrova as Azucena* (d) and Claudio Frigerio as Count di Luna* (d) were newcomers in II Trovatore. Myrna Shadow, formerly of the Chicago company, sang Nedda* (d) at her debut on Novem- ber 27. Beatrice Belkin, who had served an apprenticeship at the Roxy Theater, was heard as the Dewman* in Hansel und Gretel on October 30. For some operagoers the season may be best recalled by a hap- pening outside the Metropolitan: the first New York hearing of Mussorgsky’s Khovanshchina at the Mecca Temple (now the City Center) on March 7. Michel Schvetz (Khovansky), Max Pantelieff (Dosefei) and a Mme Vanentinova had leading roles, with Michael Feveisky conducting. None was remarkable for finish or vocal art, but the performance showed, as Henderson termed it, “the genius of Moussorgsky who had a musical lan- Operas and Artists , 1930-1931 423 guage of magnificent eloquence for just this sort of thing.” In the same auditorium (then without pitched floor, adequate or- chestra pit, or proper lighting facilities) Johanna Gadski ven- tured another week of German opera in March. Carl Hartmann, who later sang at the Metropolitan, was the Tristan to her Isolde on March 16, with Max von Schillings conducting. Once more Gadski sang remarkably well, after nearly thirty-five years before the New York public. The company attempted a Ring cycle that was little more than a concert presentation of the four works, with Johannes Sembach once more as Loge and Siegmund, Carl Braun as Wotan, Gadski as Briinnhilde. Of new singers, the best was Margaret Baumer, who sang an excellent Senta in Der fiiegende Hollander on March 17 and Marta in D’ Albert’s Tiefland on March 19. Maria von Essen, who was the Brangane of the opening Tristan, but was prevented by illness from singing again, was engaged by the Metropolitan. Following a usual tour to the South, Cleveland, and Rochester, the subscription department stated that ninety-five per cent of the seat-holders had renewed for the following season. When options were exercised in the fall, however, the falling off was decidedly more than five per cent. No mention was made, im- mediately, of the decline in box-office income (from $3,052,395 to $2,667,062) or the heavy loss of $322,231. One view of the Metropolitan’s plight was offered by Ernst Lert, who left after two years’ service as stage director, with the statement: “It is not opera that is dying, only the traditional method of presenting it.” Lert was categorized by the manage- ment as a man disgruntled because his contract had not been renewed, but an expansion of his views published in the De- cember 1935 issue of Chord and Discord is worth consideration. Despite the “most experienced impresario, the most lavishly paid conductor, the most highly publicized star, the most bombastic scenic artist,” wrote Lert, the Metropolitan’s lack of co-ordina- tion made the results “a variety show.” The stage director, he said, is placed “in an impossible position,” named as “responsible for the production, even though he [Gatti] has not granted him a single rehearsal for nineteen out of twenty such productions.” Even when a new production was staged, the director had no share in choosing the cast and was “required to render the most m mm jjl L 424 The Metropolitan Opera complicated opera fit for performance within ten or twelve hours (three or four rehearsals)!” The march of events brought a radio microphone onto the Metropolitan stage for the first time on April 21, 1931, during an actual performance, but the adventurous venture was per- mitted by the League of Composers on behalf of Stravinsky’s CEdipus Rex, conducted by Stokowski, not for a Metropolitan opera. On January 21, 1927 a network audience had heard the garden scene from Faust broadcast from Chicago (with Edith Mason, Charles Hackett, Vanni Marcoux, and Richard Bonelli, Giorgio Polacco conducting). A spokesman for the Metropoli- tan declared that such a performance was “not opera.” 1931-1932 Despite the dissipation of one third of the company’s reserve fund in the single season of 1930, there was no disposition yet to temper the shorn lamb of opera to the adverse winds. Planning went forward in the spring for a usual period of twenty-four weeks, with quantities of new productions and revivals. As time for the opening approached, two happenings made the future more menacing: one was the falling off, when subscriptions were taken up, of more than ten per cent from the year before. The other was the retirement, on October 26, of Otto Kahn from his position as chairman of the board. Pressing business responsi- bilities were given as the reason (Mortimer Schiff, of the Kuhn, Loeb firm, had recently died, and Kahn’s responsibilities were greatly increased). Shortly after, he withdrew as a director of the Philharmonic-Symphony Society. His lawyer, Paul D. Cra- vath, was charged with carrying on his work with the Metro- politan, in which he still retained his stock. In Gatti’s after-view, Kahn’s retirement caused “public appre- hension” about the Metropolitan’s stability. As for the decline in subscriptions, he wrote: “In three years we lost more than thirty per cent of our subscribers. It was clear that the wealthy classes had suffered the largest shrinkage of fortunes, for they formed the bulk of subscribers who cancelled. . . . The general public which purchased its admissions from day to day, contin- ued at about the same level.” The question of cause and effect is, of course, interpreted in Operas and Artists, 1931-1932 425 the only way Gatti could interpret it. On the other hand, it may be suggested that when money became tight, it was easier for some to give up an investment of $400 (for two orchestra seats) a season than save as much by giving up something else. It would also reflect how much such persons cared for opera, how much they cared for Metropolitan opera, and, finally, how much they cared for Metropolitan opera as it had been given during the several preceding seasons. In any event, the opening Traviata on November 2 was at- tended by a houseful of patrons who paid as much as $11 a seat ($8.25 by subscription), and gave close attention to Ponselle’s vigorously unconventional Violetta, to Lauri-Volpi’s Alfredo and De Luca’s Germont. When it was over, one suspects that more than a few had completed their opera-going for the year. Gatti notes: “Then came the deluge.” But it is not imme- diately apparent from contemporary accounts of a Tannhduser with Jeritza and Ohms, La Boheme with Bori and Martinelli, or L’Elisir d’amore with Gigli, Fleischer, and Pinza, which pre- ceded the season’s first novelty on November 7. Jaromir Wein- berger’s Schwanda was class of 1927, Prague, as Krenek’s Jonny Spielt A uf had been of Leipzig, a thing of “fun and frolic” (as Pitts Sanborn termed it in the World-Telegram), which deserved better of New York than it received. Urban’s rather joyless pro- duction, however, was the key to a generally heavy treatment of a score that has humor of a sort, if not great distinction. Schorr’s Schwanda* was beautifully sung by a man who rarely sang an- other comedy part. Bodanzky’s conducting was better than able, and the cast of Muller (Dorota*), Laubenthal (Babinsky*), Branzell (the Queen*), and Andresen (Sorcerer*) had abun- dant vocal power for Gotterdammerung, if not quite the resili- ence for Schwanda. Max Lorenz sang Schwanda after the premiere, the repetitions numbering four. Max Brod, translator of Die verkaufte Braut, also provided the German text for Schwanda. A similar total of five performances accrued to Suppe’s Donna Juanita, given first on January 2, with Jeritza performing an adagio dance, taking part in the English-language “gags” with which the text was sprinkled. In all, the production adhered to no consistent style, though Jeritza was a vivacious Rene,* Manski 426 The Metropolitan Opera a Donna Olympia* described by Henderson as a “farceuse of high rank,” and Fleischer the Petrita.* The Metropolitan’s simulated Theater-an-der-Wien personnel— Laubenthal, Schiit- zendorf, and Windheim— had smaller parts. Bodanzky’s early years as an operetta conductor served him well and there was also praise for Urban’s evocation of San Sebastian. Henderson expressed a basic reaction when he wrote “some wondered just what this kind of show was doing . in the Metropolitan . . . but there it was.” What proved to be the last of Gatti’s Italian novelties, Italo Montemezzi’s one-act La Notte di Zoraima, was also far from the best of them when seen on December 2. The composer freely confessed that the libretto, based on a revolt among Incas, appealed to him because, in Henderson’s words, “it packed into one capacious act every melodramatic antiquity of Italian opera,” but aside from some high-flown phrases that permitted Ponselle as Zoraima* to demonstrate “the grandiloquence of style in which she is so impressive,” the score lacked interest. Jagel (Muscar*), Basiola (Pedrito*), and Biondo (Manuela*) were embarrassed not only by poor music, but also by unsightly na- tive costumes. The conductor was Serafin, the designer Novak. Audience attention was shared with I Pagliacci at the premiere, thereafter with L’Oracolo, which had been brought back on No- vember 23 for another round of performances with Scotti. Considering the number of operas given in New York since Verdi revised Simon Boccanegra in 1881, it seems perverse that one of such singular merits should have waited till January 28, 1932 for its Metropolitan introduction. The melodic richness of the score, its solid musical construction, and its strength of feeling were admirably projected by Serafin, and the audience’s interest in Tibbett’s artistically composed, powerfully sung Boccanegra* was sustained through longueurs in the intricate libretto. Pinza as Jacopo Fiesco,* Frigerio as Paolo Albiani,* and Martinelli as Gabriele* all had quality, but the musical line of Maria* fared better when Rethberg replaced Maria Muller on February 24. Camille Parravicini of Milan provided the ornate, old-fashioned, but suggestive scenery. Boccanegra has worn well, first with Tibbett, then with Warren, and may be expected to be heard again periodically. Operas and Artists, 1931-1932 427 In two works revived for Pons, her sparkle and charm counted for more in Lakme on February 19 than in La Sonnambula on March 16. If she, too, sang the “Bell Song” better than she did the more melodic material of Act I, she dressed the stage better than Galli-Curci or Barrientos, and helped to make Novak’s pro- duction theatrically valid. Artful work was done by Swarthout as Mallika* and Thill (in better voice than the year before) as Gerald.* De Luca (Frederic) and Rothier (Nilakantha) were no strangers to operatic India. A lavish, more than usually naked ballet gave unexpected life to Act II, with De Leporte and Kos- loff as principals. Jagel and Martinelli were later Geralds, and Hasselmans conducted. For Bellini’s music Pons as Amina* dis- played a kind of delivery Henderson termed “breathy and tenta- tive,” her vocal style lacking finish and ease. Gigli was Elvino* and Pinza a fine Rodolfo.* Urban provided the scenic decora- tions, and Serafin was the conductor. Even before the first month of the season was completed, the daily returns had shown such diminished size as to promise a record-breaking deficit. It was then (November 23) that Gatti put forth his plea for “sacrifice” equally shared. As detailed on page 28, virtually all individuals agreed; the unions, for one reasonable reason or another, did not. Subsequently there were rumors that the company would disband and undertake opera- tions elsewhere, in some more financially advantageous setting. These were dismissed by Paul D. Cravath as “quite out of the question,” as was the possibility of bankruptcy. The steady criticism of the German performances in the last several seasons resulted in some alterations of personnel, but no sharp improvement in quality. Kirchhoff followed Taucher out of the Metropolitan, and while Laubenthal lingered, Melchior sang more often and Max Lorenz came to make his debut as Walther* (d) in Die Meistersinger on November 12. A serious artist and an intelligent musician, Lorenz had a hard, unyielding tone quality that did not alter much in the two decades in which he came and went at the Metropolitan. Maria von Essen, of the previous spring’s Gadski company, was a routine Magdalene* (d); Fleischer (Eva) and Schorr (Sachs) were excellent. Hans Clemens was a new David.* On November 14 Lorenz was a creditable Siegmund* and Manski a surprisingly good Sieglinde 428 The Metropolitan Opera in a Walkiire that introduced Carlton Gun Id, an American basso of promise as Hunding* (d). After Babinsky in Schwanda and Erik in Der fliegende Hollander, Lorenz sang Siegfried* in a performance of which Henderson wrote: “The scherzo of the ‘Ring’ became something like a stately minuet.” Bodanzky, who conducted, had one of his most trying years, for the financial underwriter of the Friends of Music (Harriet Lanier) had re- cently died and the series came to an end for lack of new guarantors. What may be noted as a low point of Wagner performances in this period came on November 20, when Tristan was given with both Ohms and Laubonthal vocally ailing. By evidence of the Herald Tribune, Bodanzky disposed of the first act (uncut) eighteen minutes faster than was customary in Dresden or Ber- lin. Shortly afterward the management announced that Ohms was ill and would not appear again “for some time." She did not ever appear again at the Metropolitan. Her place, physically, was taken by Gota Ljungberg, a commanding figure of a woman, whose debut as Sieglinde* (d) in Die Walkitre on Jatmaiy z > j was admired for picturesqueness, less for a vocal manner that always promised to produce better sound than it did. Her further appearances included Elsa, Briinuhilde in Die Watkure, anti Isolde, all sung with good detail in what Henderson termed a “voix de vcloute" that did not quite cut through the Wagnerian orchestra. Her Isolde, in the saute critical view, belonged to "the delicately cut intaglio class,” sensitive and assured, but with an oboe sound where a trumpet quality was desired. Also ut small size in this Isolde on February } was the Br.ittgaue* of Doris Due, likened by Henderson to the "kind exhibited on the ptovmci.il stages of Germany.” A hard working, intelligent singer. Doe had neither the experience nor the vocal plenitude tor such roles a. Waltrautc, Fricka (Die Walk a re ) , and Lula (Siegfried ; . her considerable lot in this season. The Wagner patrons, as distinguished from operagoers, re- mained remarkably constant, loyally supporting the Ring cycle plus Tannhauser and Tristan. Bodanzky 's share ot nutations m eluded a Got ter dam merit ng on March t- for winch Whitrhrl! was ill, with Schutzcndorf replacing him as Gunther, and Gain,? moving up to sing Albcrich. Ljungberg, the scheduled Outturn-. Operas and Artists , 1931-1932 429 was also ill, and her place was taken by Manski. In addition to singing Siegfried, Melchior indicated by nods and gestures where the ill-prepared substitutes should move. The Siegfried on March 1 1 was embellished by the farewell to opera of Schumann- Heink, whose Erda (at more than seventy) “took the breath away,” said Downes. In the circumstances, Ljungbcrg as Brvinn- hilde* awoke and sang without undue attention. She was a credit- able Kundry* in Parsifal on March 22. Tangential to the German repertory was Pinza’s Landgraf Hermann* in Tannhduser on De- cember 25, sung with beautiful sound if with the lack of ease ex- pectable in a first venture in an alien tongue. Lert’s replacement as stage director was Alexander Sanine, who gave full evidence of his capacity in a newly staged Lohengrin on December 21, which utilized the shabby Urban settings. Plausible groupings and concerted action gave fresh life to the stage, though Lorenz, in Bayreuth style, felled Telramund with a wave of the sword rather than with a blow. A pudgy Swan knight in appearance, he did not sing too agreeably, a disability shared by Jeritza. For Bodanzky, the tempos were surprisingly deliberate. With financial problems increasingly stringent, the new source of revenue promised by radio broadcasts could no longer be re- sisted. The first underwriter was the National Broadcasting Company, whose president, M. H. Aylesworth, prefaced the first broadcast, on Christmas Day 1931, of Hansel und Gretel, with the statement: “The contribution made by NBC . . . helps to maintain the opera." hi the column recording “phonograph in- come” for this season, the company’s books show $100,000 more than for the year before, no doubt the earning from the broad- casts. Riedel conducted the performance, with Fleischer, Mario, Wakefield, Sehutzendorf, and Manski in familiar parts. Seeking a device to make Humperdinck more palatable than he was, the network offered Deems Taylor as commentator not only before and after the work, but during its progress. The protests that ensued conveyed the listener view that a low voice was an excel- lent thing in women, but not during an opera. If was soon dis- continued in favor of more conventional commentary. Operas continued to be presented regularly thereafter, the first spoil- 430 The Metropolitan Opera sored performance occurring on December 30, 1933 (see page 440). The steady progress of Gladys Swarthout continued with such roles as Preziosilla in La Forza del destino and Mrs. Deane in Peter Ibbetson, leading to an Adalgisa* in Norma on Decem- ber 26— the centenary, to the day, of the work's first produc- tion at La Scala— which brought from Henderson the praise: “She . . . sang the recitatives with a competence of style which her previous revelations had not led us to expect . . . her warm and lovely voice . . . was heard with pleasure.” Arthur Ander- son, a basso of excellent voice and bearing, made a debut as Donner* (d) in Rheingold on February 26, and was later heard in Sadko (the Norse Merchant*) and Aida (the King*). Ar- mando Borgioli and Francesco Merli were new Italian singers of solid ability but no outstanding capacities who sang Amonasro and Rhadames in Aida on April 2 in the same cast as Anderson. (Carmela Ponselle made one of her infrequent appearances, as Amneris, with Rethberg and Pinza. ) The baritone Borgioli gave evidence of good capacities in such roles as Don Carlos* (d) in La Forza del destino on January 22, Barnaba in La Gioconda, Tonio, and Count di Luna, and returned for each of Gatti’s re- maining seasons. Merli, who also sang Edgardo in Lucia on March 11 (Pietro Cimara made his debut as conductor in place of Bellezza), Gabriele in Boccanegra, and Pinkerton, was not heard after this season. The confusion and the countercharges detailed elsewhere (see page 28) in the negotiation of new contracts at the end of this season had more than a little effect on the artistic future of the institution. Gigli withdrew defiantly, Clarence Whitehill with mild aspersions on his ability after a long and distinguished ca- reer. Bohnen, Lorenz, and Andresen were not re-engaged, and Jeritza decided to sing no more at the Metropolitan. Despite the voluntary cuts and the windfall from radio, the sharp decline in revenue brought the loss to $497,21 3, the largest in many decades of operation. Operas and Artists, 1932-1933 431 THE METROPOLITAN OPERA ASSOCIATION Depression and Deficit, 1932-1933 The formula that was evolved to facilitate the continuation of opera at the Metropolitan served several purposes. The dominant one was to reduce expenses that had pyramided, through the years of prosperity, including fees approaching $3,000 per per- formance for Chaliapin and Gigli. By a simple “reorganization,” the assets of the Metropolitan Opera Company— but not its obli- gations— were transferred to the stockless, profitless, and— for some years to come— property less Metropolitan Opera Asso- ciation. The transformation (see page 29) also gave the Association the status of an “educational" institution and relief, for the while, from amusement taxes. Plainly, ticket prices had to be re- duced in accordance with a depressed economy. Elimination of taxes, however, permitted the Metropolitan to reduce its top price per subscription ticket from $8.23 to $6.30 while sacrificing only one dollar per ticket. Almost as much (seventy-five cents per ticket) was saved to the purchaser by elimination of the tax. Ticket prices thus returned to the level that had prevailed in the 1920-4 period. Kor single seat purchasers, the top rate was $7 per ticket. In t he spring Earle I ,ewis made his usually hopeful prognosis of subscription sales but this was not justified by the public response in the fall despite the reduced prices and the even more drastic reduction in playing time from twenty-four to sixteen weeks. This was the shortest season of Metropolitan opera since Con- ried’s first in 1903. which had been fifteen weeks. Even more novel was the prominence of Lawrence Tibbett in the opening performance of Simon Hoccanegra on November 21, the first time an American male singer wholly trained in this country had been so honored. Both Kalm and Maekay, veteran first-nighters, were absent, and Henderson observed: “Even to the mere music reporter it was plain that there were many un- familiar faces in boxes and stalls." This was Oatti’s twenty fifth opening, and Toscanini, recently reconciled with his old friend, was present. Also present were Serafim who conducted, Midler, Martinelli, Pinza, and Erigcrio. 432 The Metropolitan Opera To fill the need for a leading tenor left by Gigli’s departure, Tito Schipa made his debut on November 23, as Nemorino* (d) in L’Elisir d’amore, with Fleischer, De Luca, and Pinza. His growth since early appearances in New York with visiting Chi- cago companies was reflected in Henderson’s tributes to his “taste, refinement, and elegance,” and the statement that “Una furtiva lagrima” was sung “as it had rarely been sung” in the house. Among a sequence that included Edgardo and Alfredo, his most memorable effort was an Ottavio* in Don Giovanni on December 17, which Henderson commended as “a delight to the connoisseur,” the best Mozart singing heard from a tenor since Bonci. With Pinza gaining ease as the Don, Ponselle enjoying one of her best evenings as Donna Anna, and Muller a propul- sive if sometimes strident Elvira, the shape of future Don Gio- vannis began to be apparent. Pasero was a rather lumbering Leporello,* Malatesta a poor Masetto.* The suspension of opera in Chicago the previous January had ended the gentleman’s agreement that formerly prevailed, re- sulting in the availability to the Metropolitan of several fine art- ists, of whom Schipa was the first and Richard Bonelli the sec- ond. The latter’s sturdy baritone was heard for the first time as Germont* (d) in La Traviata on December 1, with Schipa (Al- fredo*) and Ponselle, and he gave sound service as Marcello, Tonio, and Valentin in Faust. The greatest impact from what Gilman called “the preoccupation of Mr. Insull in foreign parts” followed the debuts of Frida Leider ( Isolde, *d) and Maria Olszewska (Brangane,* d) in Tristan on January 16. The quality of their performances (which Chicago had been hearing since 1928) made palpable nonsense of the contention that such roles had been badly sung at the Metropolitan because artists to sing them could not be found. With a revivified Bodanzky conduct- ing, and Melchior, Schorr, and Ludwig Hofmann (Mark*) per- forming at their best, younger operagoers had a glimpse of what Gilman called “the fabulous days before the war.” Henderson especially admired Leider’s first act, which she sang with “passion, variety, and elasticity,” though the voice was plainly worn. She had the “indescribable magic of genuineness,” however, which transcended vocal blemishes. He also approved Olszewska as “a Brangane of the first rank,” and noted a “vocal Operas and Artists, 1932-1933 433 finish and depth of feeling” that Melchior had not previously given to Tristan— also Bodanzky’s “unwonted fire and feeling.” The transformation in Bodanzky had not been suggested by his early-season work, which included a Gotterdammerung on November 24 in which Ludwig Hofmann’s Hagen* (d) was saluted by Henderson as the work of “an artist of authority,” Gustav de Loor’s Siegfried* (d) scarcely saluted at all. A small fee was the biggest merit of this thick-voiced, unimaginative tenor. Hofmann’s vocal range and stylistic competence enabled him to perform the work of two such specialists as Bohnen and Andresen, his repertory this season including Landgraf Hermann in Tannhduser, Mark, Wotan in Die Walkilre, Heinrich in Lohengrin, and Gumemanz in Parsifal. He was a commanding figure in any role he undertook, and sang eloquently when his sometimes unresponsive voice was under full command. How such a difficulty might arise was suggested by Henderson in an obituary tribute to Clarence Whitehill, who died on Decem- ber 18, 1932. He disclosed that the singer had a long-standing difficulty “owing to the supersensitiveness of one vocal chord. When this was slightly congested the singer’s tone acquired a little roughness . . . when the congestion was pronounced he became unmistakably hoarse.” Only the “thoroughness of his vocal art,” said Henderson, enabled Whitehill to sing as long and as well as he did. The upward curve of Bodanzky’s “second” career may be dated from December 3, when he had an unmistakable personal suc- cess in the first Metropolitan performance of Strauss’s Elektra. In Gilman’s view, Kappel’s Elektra* was “not within a thousand miles” of the character Strauss had conceived, Branzell’s well- sung Clytemnestra* was temperamentally tame, and Ljungberg’s Chrysothemis* was “distressingly self-conscious,” but the sus- tained applause of the large audience was a handsome tribute to Bodanzky’s conducting. Henderson described it as “masterful,” paying particular tribute to his “communicative temperament.” Whatever the lacks of the personnel, the thoroughgoing prepara- tion by Bodanzky began a new period of Metropolitan apprecia- tion for the Strauss of Elektra, and eventually Salome, especially when Olszewska sang a powerful Clytemnestra* on February 3, with Manski a striking Chrysothemis,* and Ljungberg not less 434 The Metropolitan Opera good than Kappel as Elektra.* Schorr (Orestes*) and Lauben- thal ( Asgisthus* ) were constants. Marking the change from the days when “offal” and “ordure” were appropriate terms for Strauss, Henderson noted on February 3 that “there was a daisy chain all around the Metropolitan”— another way of saying that, in combination with Pagliacci, Elektra was a benefit for the Vas- sar College Scholarship Fund. Leider and Olszewska contributed considerably to the new vi- tality of the Wagner performances in which they appeared, in- cluding a Ring cycle that began on January 27 with Olszewska as Erda* in Das Rheingold. Unfortunately the soprano began to feel the effects of the New York winter in early February, when Die Walkiire was given on the 2nd, with Melchior, Olszewska (Fricka*), Schorr, Stiickgold, and Tappolet. She sang a highly able Briinnhilde until her throat clogged in Act III and she was momentarily voiceless. Manski, standing in the wings as one of the Walkiire, picked up the lines and sang them without lapse till Leider could continue. (The afflicted singer was all for leaving the stage until Manski, during a breathing-spell, hoarsely re- minded her she would lose part of her fee if she did. ) Although the management virtually denied the incident, thus minimizing Manski’s well-earned credit, she was allowed the privilege of sing- ing Briinnhilde* in Siegfried on February 9, Leider being bedded with grip. It was hardly for her voice, however. Leider returned for Gotterdammerung on February 16, but neither this Briinn- hilde nor Kundry* in Parsifal on March 9 were quite representa- tive of her best. The season's premier cast was reunited for another Tristan on the final Saturday afternoon of the season (March 11) marking the one-hundredth performance of the music drama during Gatti's direction. Schorr, who had succeeded to one of Whitehill’s specialties to sing an eloquent Amf ortas* two days before, was replaced as Kurvenal by Schiit- zendorf. As well as singing an able Venus, Brangane, Fricka, and Erda, Olszewska made her mark as that rare bird who wore German and Italian plumage with equal distinction by performing a powerful Amneris* on February 13, the day after an excellent Waltraute* in Gotterdammerung. She won acclaim also for her Ortrud* in Lohengrin on February 6, where pertinent action Operas and Artists, 1932— 1933 435 made her a figure in the drama during Act I, though she had no solo music to sing. The first note of the distant rise of Nazism came to the Metro- politan indirectly on January 7, when Louis Gruenberg’s treat- ment of Eugene O’Neill’s Emperor Jones was added to the list of the institution’s world premieres. It had been scheduled for prior performance in Berlin, but had been withdrawn when Erich Kleiber, who was to conduct it, decided that a music drama with an American Negro as the central figure would not flourish in the current political climate. Tibbett was doubtless the best non-Negro Jones* one could imagine, close to the dramatic level of Gilpin and Robeson. Gruenberg’s monochromatic music gave him little to work with, that little including a heightened use of “Standin’ in the Need of Prayer” at the moment of climax. Hen- derson judged it a “turbulent . . . sometimes frenetic score”; Sanborn in the 'World-Telegram thought it more “a remembered convention” than the product of “an inspired imagination.” Some felt that O’Neill’s background drumbeat was more musical effect than any Gruenberg imposed upon it. Jo Mielziner’s decor was admired (though it was drastically reduced by the con- servative Metropolitan minds from his first bold sketches), and Windheim as Smithers* and Besuner as an Old Native Woman* supported Tibbett splendidly. Serafin 1 conducted, Sanine stage- directed, and Hemsley Winfield, the first Negro to appear in a Metropolitan production, danced the Witch Doctor. Jones had eight further performances during this and the next season, usu- ally in the unsuitable company of Hansel und Gretel or Pagliacci. The other unfamiliar work of this season was Rossini’s brief II Signor Bruschino. Most knew at least the sprightly overture when the work was served on December 8 as an aperitif for Elektra, but the historically minded found the ironic jesting of Rossini (he had written the work unwillingly) amended by an editorial hand, the low range of the soprano and the high tones of the basso parts being restored to more normal ranges. Fleischer (Sofia*), Pinza (Gaudenzio*), and De Luca (Bruschino*) were all skilled in their parts, and Serafin conducted with spirit. It brought to an end the long association of Urban with the Metro- 1 Serafin retained a sufficient memory of Jones to produce it in Italy in 1952, with Nicolo Rossi-Lemini as an Italian Emperor. 436 The Metropolitan Opera politan, for illness intervened as he was at work on the project, which was completed by Novak. The prolific designer died the following July. Despite the brevity of the season. Oat ti managed to crowd thirty-seven works into the repertory, with restorations of L’Amore dei tre re and Die verkaufte Brant. The Monteme/zt score would have fared better on February 17 had not its able cast of Bori, Johnson, Pascro (Archibaldo*), and Boueili (Man* fredo*) been associated with an orchestra that had spent the afternoon playing an uncut Gotterddmmerim g, Smetana's lark did not ascend so high with Hofmann rather than Bohnett as Kezal* on February 4, but Hofmann was a better than passable marriage-broker in the charming company of Rethfrerg’s Mark, Windheim’s Wenzel/ and the chic Ksmeiakla® of Helen Gleason. Laubenthal, Sehutzeudorf, and Manski (Kathinkai were old hands at the game of barter. Budan/.ky placed the over- ture as an overture (before Act 1 1, but the season dosed with a mere two hearings of both Montcmc//.i ami Smetana An old friend passed from the scene on Jauuaiv so when An tonio Scotti rolled his orange for the last time as Chun Feu m L’Oracolo, and pronounced the honest if unconventional vale- dictory: “I do not want to leave you. hut 1 must " With him m the last performance of his thirty thud season wet*- Man**, Tokatyan, and Pascro. Farrar. whose career had um .1 tom.mfK course beside his own, was present to throw him a butujm t, as was Bori. The tears and cheers followed a matinee IU theme with Rcthbcrg and Martinclli. Bdlez/a eomltn ted both In deference to the ruthless, sometimes efficient maxim «»t the theater: “Off with the old. on with the new." an imtcasittg mini ber of young singers came to replace those too old, too expensive, or too independent. The trend of earliei thus was slovvlv Inutg reversed so that if was no longer the exceptional Annan m who would Ire sought out, hut rathei the exceptional Fuiopr an one. In addition to Boueili, the new artists intituled Rose Ramp ton, Richard Crooks, and Helen Gleason, arranged m older of length of career as well as alphabetiealh. The writer in the Times (Hubbard Hutcheson ». who de- scribed Hampton’s voice at her debut as 1 .atna* td> m La G: conda on November zH as “truly eoiitialto," tan hardlv be „ JA . ] Operas and Artists, 1932-1933 437 j blamed, for Bampton so styled herself for five years. Henderson \ heard a “rich, powerful, sensitive mezzo soprano . . . with a de- ' lightful smoothness throughout the scale.” She later sang the \ Sandman in Hansel und Qretel and Amneris in Aida, and con- i tinued to broaden her mezzo repertory till 1937. % Crooks was much less a questionable quantity at his debut as Des Grieux* (d) in Manon on February 25, for he had been % heard often in concert and on the radio and was well equipped with European experience. “It was a delight to see a young i Chevalier,” wrote Henderson, “and to hear his music sung with a fresh unworn voice.” The critic also remarked a rather needless timidity about high tones, which was a later Crooks character- • j istic. A standing regret of Crooks’s Metropolitan career was his failure to sing either Lohengrin or Walther von Stolzing, for •' which he was well suited by voice and training. In this year he sang only in Manon. Helen Gleason, who had more prominence on the operetta stage in later years, showed a pretty voice as Bersi* in Andrea Chenier on November 25, also as Esmeralda in Die verkaufte Braut. Margaret Halstead, a buxom alto, was overmatched as Venus’ 1 ' (d) in her debut in Tannhduser on November 26, using her big tones with little discipline. A skilled artist who came by ; way of Chicago was Eide Norena, better as Juliette* in Romeo '■ j on February 22 than as Mimi* (d) in her debut on February 9. Her rather limited level of achievement rose somewhat in future seasons. For an oddity, the Ponselle sisters appeared together for the first time at the Metropolitan on December 21, when Car- mela sang an eloquent Laura* to Rosa’s customarily fine Gio- conda. “Together,” said Henderson of the second-act duet “they . ! made the fire fly.” Radio broadcasts resumed on November 24 when Lakme was given, beginning with Act II. Conventional summaries replaced the Taylor tones of the previous season. The long-scorned device was gratefully employed for purposes of fund-raising (as noted on page 33), beginning with Manon on February 25, in which the honor— a rather ominous prophecy of things to come— went to Edward Johnson. Geraldine Farrar returned to the Metro- politan stage on March 9, but only to speak on behalf of the fund, and the artists donated their services for two benefits r 438 The Metropolitan Opera (. Manon on March 17, Aida on March 24), and the entertain- ment incidental to a ball on April 26. When the goal was achieved, plans were announced for a fourteen-week season for 1933-4. Publicly all was harmonious; in the corridor leading to Gatti’s office, matters were sometimes otherwise. Serafin’s com- plaints, for one, were not long suppressed (see page 34). At the year’s end Laubenthal, De Loor, Tokatyan, and Lauri-Volpi were not re-engaged. Paul Althouse, in a new career as a Wagner tenor, Charles Hackett, Claudia Muzio, and Max Lorenz were re-engaged; and John Charles Thomas, Lotte Lehmann, and Nino Martini were added to the company. The usual cheery news of high subscription renewals did not make the customary impression, memories of recent downward trends still being fresh. The sixteen weeks showed a loss of $339,901, an average of $600 a week more than the previous year’s weekly red figures of $20,500. As ticket prices were appre- ciably less, however, the numerical attendance had turned for the better. 1 933 _1 934 The first season of Metropolitan opera underwritten by public funds was unique in more than this single respect. Its fourteen weeks were the shortest period of opera New York had been offered in nearly forty years; and the competition of pre-Christ- mas shopping was avoided by an opening on December 26. Of it- self this indicates the low estate to which interest in opera had fallen in this period; for if there is normally a diversion of atten- tion among New Yorkers at this time, out-of-town visitors usu- ally compensate for it. In the circumstances, the choice of Taylor’s Peter Ihbetson for the opening (the first American work thus honored) was an all- round judicious one. It made a comfortable family party of this somewhat depressed ceremonial, especially as its principals— Bori, Johnson, and Tibbett— had been the most active figures in the spring campaign for money. Taylor had amended the work somewhat in search of melodic continuity, but the results did not appear significant. In the juvenile role of Mimsey* (d) was a new young actress, June Lockhart. As always, Serafin con- ducted. Operas and Artists, 1 933—1934 439 Actually, this was a first night that was not an opening, for Christmas afternoon had seen the customary Hansel und Gretel, and the Philadelphia series had started on December 19 with Pons in Lakme. The old social connections were dissolving faster than any suspected. Those who came through a heavy snow- storm (the curtain was fifteen minutes late in rising) to hear Ibbetson were operagoers at least, if not music-lovers. “Going on” once more was legal; but it was to a supper club for a night- cap rather than to the balls or assemblies of old. The impetus that had been provided to the Wagner literature in the previous season by Leider and Olszewska was continued by the long-delayed but no less welcome debut of Lotte Lehmann as Sieglinde* (d) on January 11, in which, with Melchior and Emmanuel List (Hunding), she sang a first act of Walkiire not matched in years. In a detailed appreciation of her performance Henderson wrote: “It is no injustice to her predecessors [as Sieglinde] to assert that she must be placed in the foremost rank.” Kappel and Hofmann were in their best form, as was Bo- danzky. Branzell, who had been ill, got through her Fricka by singing much of the music sitting on a stage rock. One had to be alert to hear Lehmann this season, for her other appearances were few and widely spaced: Elisabeth* in Tann- hauser on February 24, Eva* in Die Meistersinger on March 15. The variety of her art and the illumination it shed on these thrice-familiar roles made vibrant drama of what had recently been dull make-believe. Schorr’s Sachs reached a new level of eloquence on this occasion, prompting Henderson to say: “He sang all the music like a great artist and some of it as it had never been sung here except, perhaps, by Emil Fischer.” Lorenz, Doe (Magdalene), and List (Pogner) were hardly performers to invite historical comparisons. List appeared first in Tannhduser on December 27, a Land- grave* (d) of substantial voice and person. Henderson noted his voice as “not of luscious quality but of fairly good metal,” with an artistic sense of “vocal line and color.” The Bayreuth record- ing of the 1932 Festival is still audible testimony to what this critic meant when he termed Muller’s Elisabeth “among the best the Metropolitan stage has known.” List is best remembered for his Ochs in Der Rosenkavalier, which was not in this season’s 440 The Metropolitan Opera repertory. As Hunding, the Commendatore in Don Giovanni, Fafner, Pogner, King Henry in Lohengrin , or Gurnemanz, List was invariably a creditable performer, if rarely an exceptional one. As the Tannhauser of the performance in which List made his debut, Lorenz was more secure than in his first Metropoli- tan season, but not much more pleasant to hear. Pleasant enough, when it could be heard, was the voice of Nino Martini, who profited from the powers of radio to attain a celebrity that would not normally have been his. The big house rather cut him down to size in his debut as the Duke* (d) in Rigo- letto on December 28, his voice striking Henderson as “thin and pallid.” A likable personality rather than a powerful art gave him audience favor in such roles as Edgardo in Lucia, Rinuccio in Gianni Schicchi, even Rodolfo and Alfredo. Radio itself be- came a factor of new importance to the Metropolitan with the first Saturday of this season when Mignon on December 30, with Schipa (Meister* ) , Pons, Bori, and Swarthout, initiated the long sequence of commercially sponsored broadcasts. For the privilege of advertising Lucky Strike cigarettes, the American Tobacco Company paid close to $100,000 to the opera manage- ment (much more, of course, for radio time and incidental talent). As long before as January 4, 1920, the Tribune had given fa- vorable mention to a baritone at a Hippodrome concert who “sang the Prologo [from Pagliacci] as effectively as it had been heard in New York for years.” John Charles Thomas did a num- ber of things well in the next fourteen years, but it was not until February 2, 1934 that he did any of them at the Metropolitan. As Germont* (d) in La Traviata with Ponselle and Schipa, Thomas left only one question unanswered: why it had taken the leading theater of his native land so long to engage him. In phrasing, style, and action (as well as vocal quality), his was a performance of notable quality. He sang another Traviata on March 1 and a Tonio* in Pagliacci on April 14 (a post-season benefit for the opera fund), but nothing further till Johnson re- placed Gatti. Also brief was the reappearance of Claudia Muzio, who had been absent for a dozen years (since April 21, 1922) when she sang her fine Violetta* on January 1, 1934. Time had not im- Operas and Artists, 1933-1934 441 paired “the fresh and juvenile character” that Henderson heard in her singing, and her striking artistry was warmly appreciated by a large audience. Her only other role was Santuzza on Janu- ary 10. Unfortunately she did not sing at the Metropolitan again, for she died suddenly in May 1936. Two tenors of earlier days reappeared on February 3 when Charles Hackett was an artistic Romeo to Bori’s Juliette and Paul Althouse sang Siegmund* in the afternoon Walkiire. Both men were fully matured artis