Source: https://adventuretime.fandom.com/wiki/No_One_Can_Hear_You
Title: No One Can Hear You | Adventure Time Wiki | Fandom
Words: 14974

================================================================================

in: Episodes, Season 3 English Español No One Can Hear You Sign in to edit History Purge Talk (32) in: Episodes, Season 3 English Español in: Episodes, Season 3 in: Episodes, Season 3 English Español English Español No One Can Hear You Sign in to edit History Purge Talk (32) No One Can Hear You No One Can Hear You Sign in to edit History Purge Talk (32) History Purge Talk (32) History Purge Talk (32) "No One Can Hear You" is the fifteenth episode in the third season of Adventure Time. It's the sixty-seventh episode overall. Contents 1 Synopsis 2 Plot 3 Characters 3.1 Major characters 3.2 Minor characters 4 Locations 5 Songs 6 Trivia 6.1 Cultural references 6.2 Storyline analysis 6.3 Errors 7 Videos 8 Censorship 9 Gallery 9.1 Production art 9.2 Background art 9.3 Screenshots 10 References Synopsis[] Finn and Jake stop an unearthly stag when Finn finds that his legs are broken, Jake has gone crazy, and all the Candy People are missing. Plot[] A deer is causing trouble in the Candy Kingdom by licking the Candy People's faces. Finn and Jake try to get rid of him, but he throws Jake off and kicks him in the head. Then, he breaks Finn's legs and knocks him out. Finn wakes up in a hospital room and tries to get Dr. Ice Cream's attention. Not getting a reply from anyone, he gets up and sits on a wheelchair next to his bed. He goes out for a stroll in the Candy Kingdom but cannot find anyone. He then finds Jake digging for food in a dumpster, occasionally reaching for a bandage on his head and saying "Ouchies," suggesting that he suffered a head injury. Jake explains that there is no one in the kingdom because he is waiting for the candy people to throw him a surprise party, stating that it is his birthday. At first, Finn believes this, shouting to the town, "I sure don't expect anyone to jump out at me!" Jake takes Finn back to his makeshift house, telling him to collect wood for a fire for hobo's. He agrees and starts to wander around. Raising his arms, he realizes that he has bad body odor. Wheeling over to a fountain, he removes his hat and shirt and bathes in the fountain. Finn wonders where everyone is, but Jake gets worried because he does not want Finn to look for everyone and "ruin the surprise." After that, the deer comes along, and Finn yells at him. He simply ignores this and gallops away. Finn hears noises coming from a nearby sewer, thinking that they sound like the Candy People. Finn then tells Jake about this, but Jake just tells him to give them more time for the surprise. Finn becomes a little frustrated about waiting all day for the alleged surprise party. Jake claims he has been waiting six months for people to come out, and bugs crawl out of his ears while he says this. Finn realizes that Jake has become insane, and that they are not friends anymore. Finn then attempts to make a daring escape for the sewer, but the vicious Jake stops him and destroys his wheelchair. Finn wakes up again, tied up to a post. Jake has several puppets out. He plays with them, saying "Happy Birthday, Jake!" Finn tricks Jake into letting him free, claiming that he will not run away from him. As soon as he is free, Finn tells Jake that he has a surprise for Jake, which he must close his eyes first. Immediately, Finn makes a run for the sewer. As a result, Jake tries to get him right on his tail, after realizing that Finn was lying to him. Finn goes down into the sewer and falls into the water in it. He swims out and runs through a passage until he finds a strange-looking door. He opens the door and finds the Candy People there stuck to the walls with an orange substance. Jake soon finds him in the sewer, becoming excited to see all of the Candy People, since he thinks that it is his birthday party. Finn tells him to stop acting crazy and punches him. This causes Jake to go back to normal. Finn explains that Jake trapped the Candy People down there for his own "birthday fantasy." Jake takes Peppermint Butler off the wall and apologizes to him. Peppermint Butler tells Jake that it was not he who trapped the Candy People and points to the hart standing behind them, saying that he did it. The deer walks up to them, stands on his hind legs, and removes his front hooves, revealing his hands. Finn tries to attack him while Jake frees the Candy People. Jake climbs up to free more Candy People and is right above Finn and the hart. He unties the strings that are tying the bricks to his feet, which fall on the hart, knocking him out. Finn and Princess Bubblegum push the hart into the sewer drain, where he is washed away by the current. Princess Bubblegum explains that the deer wanted their "sugar" and winks at Finn. Finn frowns and says "Boy, it stinks down here." They all proceed to go and take a bath. Jake carries everyone, and they float away on the balloons tied around Jake, holding on to each other by their legs. The episode ends with a Candy Person saying "I wanna get clean!" Characters[] Major characters[] Finn Jake Stag Minor characters[] Princess Bubblegum Lady Rainicorn (pictured/mentioned) Candy People Gingerbread Muto Mr. Candy Cane Chet Marc Dr. Ice Cream Starchy Pineapple Guy Peppermint Butler Banana Guard Root Beer Guy Grape Popsicle Guy Candy Heart Snail Locations[] Candy Kingdom Candy Kingdom Hospital Songs[] "Hobo Dreams" "Sun Flood" "Pixel Sprint" "Nintendub" Trivia[] Finn is seen bathing for the first time, contradicting his statement about not bathing in "Too Young". Gingerbread Muto appears at the beginning near one of the houses at the right side when Finn and Jake are chasing the Stag. When Finn looks into the sewer the first time, the manhole reads CKPW (presumably meaning: "Candy Kingdom Public Works") and has a picture of a cupcake. The title card music for "Five Short Graybles" plays toward the end of the episode, after the Stag washes down into the sewers. Cultural references[] The episode's title may be a reference to the tagline for the 1979 movie Alien, which was "In space, no one can hear you scream." Another reference to Alien is when Finn goes to the sewer and discovers that the Candy People are stuck on the walls by a kind of goo, much like what the Xenomorph do to their victims. The title card resembles the famous painting The Scream by Edvard Munch. When Finn runs away from Jake and his leg casts break is very similar to a scene from Forrest Gump where Forrest loses the braces on his legs as a kid. In Jake's tent is a picture of him and Finn that somewhat resembles characters drawn by artist Keith Haring. Finn waking up after a medical procedure only to find the Candy Kingdom empty and abandoned is similar to what happens to Cillian Murphy's character at the beginning of the movie 28 Days Later. The lettering on the title cards is similar to that of Saul Bass's work, better-known for making the title sequences and poster for many Alfred Hitchcock films. In Jake's tent there is a comic book called, "Man Man," which closely resembles the Batman comics. Continuing with the horror references, the fact that Stag's lair is down in the sewer (where he meets his demise), the imagery of the balloons Jake wears, and the haunting snippets of carnival music that play may be references to the story It by Stephen King. Storyline analysis[] Finn would have died if left in a coma unattended for more than a few days. However, there is a theory that each citizen in the Candy Kingdom was kidnapped one by one by the Stag within the 6 months time span-meaning that for every Candy Person that was kidnapped, there was still one to take care of Finn while he was in a coma, until the Stag kidnapped them. This could mean that Finn recovered shortly after the last Candy Person who took care of him (as well as the last one to go missing) was kidnapped by the Stag. Jake says that Finn had been in a coma for six months. However, Jake's head injury may have made him say a falsehood. This is supported by the fact that Finn says his legs are "still broken," despite him being shown to have extraordinary healing rates in other episodes. After six months, even a normal person's legs would be healed, but would have atrophied. However, it's also possible that his remark about his legs still being "broken" was a joke, considering he was laughing after saying so and Jake laughed with him. Errors[] When the comic Jake kept in the box is first seen, it says "Manly Man," but it says "Man Man" in its second appearance. Finn shouldn't have taken a shower in the fountain while in his cast, because casts aren't allowed to get wet. All the beds in the hospital have a sign to write names on at first, but the one with Finn's name and others disappear during Finn's stay. When Finn punches Jake, he lands next to a wrench and a toolbox, which is not seen again. When Jake regains consciousness, he is not behind a door, while in the next frame, he is. During the zoom out where Finn tells Jake he imprisoned the candy people, Peppermint Butler is not covered in saliva, and Princess Bubblegum disappears from where she was first seen. When Jake reaches out to free Peppermint Butler, he is covered in saliva again. In the final scene, Peppermint Butler and other candy people are not seen flying while hanging from each other's legs. It appears the number of candy people Finn first sees does not match the rescued ones. When Finn goes back to the tent to tell Jake that he heard candy people in the sewers, the knife Jake keeps in the box next to the mattress is no longer there. When Jake reveals he has been waiting for six months and bugs start to crawl on him, his cape is gone. It reappears as Finn starts to move away from the tent. When Finn "pops his top", his nipples are visible. However, when he walks into the fountain to bathe, they are gone. When the stag is hit with cinder blocks his fingers are shown. As the candy people roll him to the drain he has his hooves back on (and while spiraling down the drain). Videos[] Adventure Time - No One Can Hear You (extended preview)Long PreviewAdventure Time - No One Can Hear You (shorter preview)Short PreviewAdventure time hobo Jake song clip Censorship[] This episode was censored in some countries. See Censorship of Adventure Time for more information. Gallery[] Production art[] Promotional art by Ako Castuera & Jesse MoynihanTitle card sketch Background art[] Screenshots[] Non-denominational deerFinn gathering wood for the hutFinn bathing in a fountainA hobo fireDeleted sceneWill the madness never end?!He's gone crazy.Ouch, Jake made those knots tight.PHIL FACE on milk carton References[] ↑ http://www.spring.me/MrMuto/q/258344487535787212 v • d • eEpisodesSeason 1 Slumber Party Panic • Trouble in Lumpy Space • Prisoners of Love • Tree Trunks • The Enchiridion! • The Jiggler • Ricardio the Heart Guy • Evicted! • My Two Favorite People • Memories of Boom Boom Mountain • Wizard • Business Time • City of Thieves • The Witch's Garden • What is Life? • Ocean of Fear • When Wedding Bells Thaw • Dungeon • The Duke • Freak City • Donny • Henchman • Rainy Day Daydream • What Have You Done? • His Hero • Gut Grinder Season 2 It Came from the Nightosphere • The Eyes • Loyalty to the King • Blood Under the Skin • Storytelling • Slow Love • Power Animal • Crystals Have Power • The Other Tarts • To Cut a Woman's Hair • The Chamber of Frozen Blades • Her Parents • The Pods • The Silent King • The Real You • Guardians of Sunshine • Death in Bloom • Susan Strong • Mystery Train • Go With Me • Belly of the Beast • The Limit • Video Makers • Heat Signature • Mortal Folly • Mortal Recoil Season 3 Conquest of Cuteness • Morituri Te Salutamus • Memory of a Memory • Hitman • Too Young • The Monster • Still • Wizard Battle • Fionna and Cake • What Was Missing • Apple Thief • The Creeps • From Bad to Worse • Beautopia • No One Can Hear You • Jake vs. Me-Mow • Thank You • The New Frontier • Holly Jolly Secrets Part I • Holly Jolly Secrets Part II • Marceline's Closet • Paper Pete • Another Way • Ghost Princess • Dad's Dungeon • Incendium Season 4 Hot to the Touch • Five Short Graybles • Web Weirdos • Dream of Love • Return to the Nightosphere • Daddy's Little Monster • In Your Footsteps • Hug Wolf • Princess Monster Wife • Goliad • Beyond this Earthly Realm • Gotcha! • Princess Cookie • Card Wars • Sons of Mars • Burning Low • BMO Noire • King Worm • Lady & Peebles • You Made Me • Who Would Win • Ignition Point • The Hard Easy • Reign of Gunters • I Remember You • The Lich Season 5 Finn the Human • Jake the Dog • Five More Short Graybles • Up a Tree • All the Little People • Jake the Dad • Davey • Mystery Dungeon • All Your Fault • Little Dude • Bad Little Boy • Vault of Bones • The Great Bird Man • Simon & Marcy • A Glitch is a Glitch • Puhoy • BMO Lost • Princess Potluck • James Baxter the Horse • Shh! • The Suitor • The Party's Over, Isla de Señorita • One Last Job • Another Five More Short Graybles • Candy Streets • Wizards Only, Fools • Jake Suit • Be More • Sky Witch • Frost & Fire • Too Old • Earth & Water • Time Sandwich • The Vault • Love Games • Dungeon Train • Box Prince • Red Starved • We Fixed a Truck • Play Date • The Pit • James • Root Beer Guy • Apple Wedding • Blade of Grass • Rattleballs • The Red Throne • Betty • Bad Timing • Lemonhope Part 1 • Lemonhope Part 2 • Billy's Bucket List Season 6 Wake Up • Escape from the Citadel • James II • The Tower • Sad Face • Breezy • Food Chain • Furniture & Meat • The Prince Who Wanted Everything • Something Big • Little Brother • Ocarina • Thanks for the Crabapples, Giuseppe! • Princess Day • Nemesis • Joshua and Margaret Investigations • Ghost Fly • Everything's Jake • Is That You? • Jake The Brick • Dentist • The Cooler • The Pajama War • Evergreen • Astral Plane • Gold Stars • The Visitor • The Mountain • Dark Purple • The Diary • Walnuts & Rain • Friends Forever • Jermaine • Chips and Ice Cream • Graybles 1000+ • Hoots • Water Park Prank • You Forgot Your Floaties • Be Sweet • Orgalorg • On the Lam • Hot Diggity Doom • The Comet Season 7 Bonnie and Neddy • Varmints • Cherry Cream Soda • Mama Said • Football Stakes Marceline The Vampire Queen • Everything Stays • Vamps About • The Empress Eyes • May I Come In? • Take Her Back • Checkmate • The Dark Cloud The More You Moe, The Moe You Know (Part I) • The More You Moe, The Moe You Know (Part II) • Summer Showers • Angel Face • President Porpoise is Missing! • Blank-Eyed Girl • Bad Jubies • King's Ransom • Scamps • Crossover • The Hall of Egress • Flute Spell • The Thin Yellow Line Season 8 Broke His Crown • Don't Look • Beyond the Grotto • Lady Rainicorn of the Crystal Dimension • I Am a Sword • Bun Bun • Normal Man • Elemental • Five Short Tables • The Music Hole • Daddy-Daughter Card Wars • Preboot • Reboot • Two Swords • Do No Harm • Wheels • High Strangeness • Horse and Ball • Jelly Beans Have Power Islands The Invitation • Whipple the Happy Dragon • Mysterious Island • Imaginary Resources • Hide and Seek • Min and Marty • Helpers • The Light Cloud Season 9 Orb Elements Skyhooks • Bespoken For • Winter Light • Cloudy • Slime Central • Happy Warrior • Hero Heart • Skyhooks II Abstract • Ketchup • Fionna and Cake and Fionna • Whispers • Three Buckets Season 10 The Wild Hunt • Always BMO Closing • Son of Rap Bear • Bonnibel Bubblegum • Seventeen • Ring of Fire • Marcy & Hunson • The First Investigation • Blenanas • Jake the Starchild • Temple of Mars • Gumbaldia • Come Along With Me Spin-offs The Adventure Time Movie Distant Lands BMO • Obsidian • Together Again • Wizard City Fionna & Cake Fionna Campbell • Simon Petrikov • Cake the Cat • Prismo the Wishmaster • Destiny • The Winter King • The Star • Jerry • Casper & Nova • Cheers Side Quests Heyo BMO Shorts and Specials Animated short • The Wand Graybles Allsorts All's Well That Rats Swell • Have You Seen the Muffin Mess • Sow, Do You Like Them Apples • The Gift That Reaps Giving Frog Seasons Spring • Summer • Autumn • Winter • Spring (Again) Minecraft SpecialDiamonds and Lemons Scrapped episodes and outlines Brothers in Insomnia • Boxcars & Bindles • Cloud Story • The Helmet of Thorogon • The Mumbling Man • Tower of Bone • Tree Problem • Hand! • Jakesuit • The Glorriors • Diamond Jim • Jake-Less • One Hot Worm • Original Season 9 Finale • Pink and Proud • Season 6 Basil Twist Episode • The Knight and the Werewolf • The Malteser Penguin • Untitled Adventure Time movie "No One Can Hear You" is the fifteenth episode in the third season of Adventure Time. It's the sixty-seventh episode overall. Contents 1 Synopsis 2 Plot 3 Characters 3.1 Major characters 3.2 Minor characters 4 Locations 5 Songs 6 Trivia 6.1 Cultural references 6.2 Storyline analysis 6.3 Errors 7 Videos 8 Censorship 9 Gallery 9.1 Production art 9.2 Background art 9.3 Screenshots 10 References Synopsis[] Finn and Jake stop an unearthly stag when Finn finds that his legs are broken, Jake has gone crazy, and all the Candy People are missing. Plot[] A deer is causing trouble in the Candy Kingdom by licking the Candy People's faces. Finn and Jake try to get rid of him, but he throws Jake off and kicks him in the head. Then, he breaks Finn's legs and knocks him out. Finn wakes up in a hospital room and tries to get Dr. Ice Cream's attention. Not getting a reply from anyone, he gets up and sits on a wheelchair next to his bed. He goes out for a stroll in the Candy Kingdom but cannot find anyone. He then finds Jake digging for food in a dumpster, occasionally reaching for a bandage on his head and saying "Ouchies," suggesting that he suffered a head injury. Jake explains that there is no one in the kingdom because he is waiting for the candy people to throw him a surprise party, stating that it is his birthday. At first, Finn believes this, shouting to the town, "I sure don't expect anyone to jump out at me!" Jake takes Finn back to his makeshift house, telling him to collect wood for a fire for hobo's. He agrees and starts to wander around. Raising his arms, he realizes that he has bad body odor. Wheeling over to a fountain, he removes his hat and shirt and bathes in the fountain. Finn wonders where everyone is, but Jake gets worried because he does not want Finn to look for everyone and "ruin the surprise." After that, the deer comes along, and Finn yells at him. He simply ignores this and gallops away. Finn hears noises coming from a nearby sewer, thinking that they sound like the Candy People. Finn then tells Jake about this, but Jake just tells him to give them more time for the surprise. Finn becomes a little frustrated about waiting all day for the alleged surprise party. Jake claims he has been waiting six months for people to come out, and bugs crawl out of his ears while he says this. Finn realizes that Jake has become insane, and that they are not friends anymore. Finn then attempts to make a daring escape for the sewer, but the vicious Jake stops him and destroys his wheelchair. Finn wakes up again, tied up to a post. Jake has several puppets out. He plays with them, saying "Happy Birthday, Jake!" Finn tricks Jake into letting him free, claiming that he will not run away from him. As soon as he is free, Finn tells Jake that he has a surprise for Jake, which he must close his eyes first. Immediately, Finn makes a run for the sewer. As a result, Jake tries to get him right on his tail, after realizing that Finn was lying to him. Finn goes down into the sewer and falls into the water in it. He swims out and runs through a passage until he finds a strange-looking door. He opens the door and finds the Candy People there stuck to the walls with an orange substance. Jake soon finds him in the sewer, becoming excited to see all of the Candy People, since he thinks that it is his birthday party. Finn tells him to stop acting crazy and punches him. This causes Jake to go back to normal. Finn explains that Jake trapped the Candy People down there for his own "birthday fantasy." Jake takes Peppermint Butler off the wall and apologizes to him. Peppermint Butler tells Jake that it was not he who trapped the Candy People and points to the hart standing behind them, saying that he did it. The deer walks up to them, stands on his hind legs, and removes his front hooves, revealing his hands. Finn tries to attack him while Jake frees the Candy People. Jake climbs up to free more Candy People and is right above Finn and the hart. He unties the strings that are tying the bricks to his feet, which fall on the hart, knocking him out. Finn and Princess Bubblegum push the hart into the sewer drain, where he is washed away by the current. Princess Bubblegum explains that the deer wanted their "sugar" and winks at Finn. Finn frowns and says "Boy, it stinks down here." They all proceed to go and take a bath. Jake carries everyone, and they float away on the balloons tied around Jake, holding on to each other by their legs. The episode ends with a Candy Person saying "I wanna get clean!" Characters[] Major characters[] Finn Jake Stag Minor characters[] Princess Bubblegum Lady Rainicorn (pictured/mentioned) Candy People Gingerbread Muto Mr. Candy Cane Chet Marc Dr. Ice Cream Starchy Pineapple Guy Peppermint Butler Banana Guard Root Beer Guy Grape Popsicle Guy Candy Heart Snail Locations[] Candy Kingdom Candy Kingdom Hospital Songs[] "Hobo Dreams" "Sun Flood" "Pixel Sprint" "Nintendub" Trivia[] Finn is seen bathing for the first time, contradicting his statement about not bathing in "Too Young". Gingerbread Muto appears at the beginning near one of the houses at the right side when Finn and Jake are chasing the Stag. When Finn looks into the sewer the first time, the manhole reads CKPW (presumably meaning: "Candy Kingdom Public Works") and has a picture of a cupcake. The title card music for "Five Short Graybles" plays toward the end of the episode, after the Stag washes down into the sewers. Cultural references[] The episode's title may be a reference to the tagline for the 1979 movie Alien, which was "In space, no one can hear you scream." Another reference to Alien is when Finn goes to the sewer and discovers that the Candy People are stuck on the walls by a kind of goo, much like what the Xenomorph do to their victims. The title card resembles the famous painting The Scream by Edvard Munch. When Finn runs away from Jake and his leg casts break is very similar to a scene from Forrest Gump where Forrest loses the braces on his legs as a kid. In Jake's tent is a picture of him and Finn that somewhat resembles characters drawn by artist Keith Haring. Finn waking up after a medical procedure only to find the Candy Kingdom empty and abandoned is similar to what happens to Cillian Murphy's character at the beginning of the movie 28 Days Later. The lettering on the title cards is similar to that of Saul Bass's work, better-known for making the title sequences and poster for many Alfred Hitchcock films. In Jake's tent there is a comic book called, "Man Man," which closely resembles the Batman comics. Continuing with the horror references, the fact that Stag's lair is down in the sewer (where he meets his demise), the imagery of the balloons Jake wears, and the haunting snippets of carnival music that play may be references to the story It by Stephen King. Storyline analysis[] Finn would have died if left in a coma unattended for more than a few days. However, there is a theory that each citizen in the Candy Kingdom was kidnapped one by one by the Stag within the 6 months time span-meaning that for every Candy Person that was kidnapped, there was still one to take care of Finn while he was in a coma, until the Stag kidnapped them. This could mean that Finn recovered shortly after the last Candy Person who took care of him (as well as the last one to go missing) was kidnapped by the Stag. Jake says that Finn had been in a coma for six months. However, Jake's head injury may have made him say a falsehood. This is supported by the fact that Finn says his legs are "still broken," despite him being shown to have extraordinary healing rates in other episodes. After six months, even a normal person's legs would be healed, but would have atrophied. However, it's also possible that his remark about his legs still being "broken" was a joke, considering he was laughing after saying so and Jake laughed with him. Errors[] When the comic Jake kept in the box is first seen, it says "Manly Man," but it says "Man Man" in its second appearance. Finn shouldn't have taken a shower in the fountain while in his cast, because casts aren't allowed to get wet. All the beds in the hospital have a sign to write names on at first, but the one with Finn's name and others disappear during Finn's stay. When Finn punches Jake, he lands next to a wrench and a toolbox, which is not seen again. When Jake regains consciousness, he is not behind a door, while in the next frame, he is. During the zoom out where Finn tells Jake he imprisoned the candy people, Peppermint Butler is not covered in saliva, and Princess Bubblegum disappears from where she was first seen. When Jake reaches out to free Peppermint Butler, he is covered in saliva again. In the final scene, Peppermint Butler and other candy people are not seen flying while hanging from each other's legs. It appears the number of candy people Finn first sees does not match the rescued ones. When Finn goes back to the tent to tell Jake that he heard candy people in the sewers, the knife Jake keeps in the box next to the mattress is no longer there. When Jake reveals he has been waiting for six months and bugs start to crawl on him, his cape is gone. It reappears as Finn starts to move away from the tent. When Finn "pops his top", his nipples are visible. However, when he walks into the fountain to bathe, they are gone. When the stag is hit with cinder blocks his fingers are shown. As the candy people roll him to the drain he has his hooves back on (and while spiraling down the drain). Videos[] Adventure Time - No One Can Hear You (extended preview)Long PreviewAdventure Time - No One Can Hear You (shorter preview)Short PreviewAdventure time hobo Jake song clip Censorship[] This episode was censored in some countries. See Censorship of Adventure Time for more information. Gallery[] Production art[] Promotional art by Ako Castuera & Jesse MoynihanTitle card sketch Background art[] Screenshots[] Non-denominational deerFinn gathering wood for the hutFinn bathing in a fountainA hobo fireDeleted sceneWill the madness never end?!He's gone crazy.Ouch, Jake made those knots tight.PHIL FACE on milk carton References[] ↑ http://www.spring.me/MrMuto/q/258344487535787212 v • d • eEpisodesSeason 1 Slumber Party Panic • Trouble in Lumpy Space • Prisoners of Love • Tree Trunks • The Enchiridion! • The Jiggler • Ricardio the Heart Guy • Evicted! • My Two Favorite People • Memories of Boom Boom Mountain • Wizard • Business Time • City of Thieves • The Witch's Garden • What is Life? • Ocean of Fear • When Wedding Bells Thaw • Dungeon • The Duke • Freak City • Donny • Henchman • Rainy Day Daydream • What Have You Done? • His Hero • Gut Grinder Season 2 It Came from the Nightosphere • The Eyes • Loyalty to the King • Blood Under the Skin • Storytelling • Slow Love • Power Animal • Crystals Have Power • The Other Tarts • To Cut a Woman's Hair • The Chamber of Frozen Blades • Her Parents • The Pods • The Silent King • The Real You • Guardians of Sunshine • Death in Bloom • Susan Strong • Mystery Train • Go With Me • Belly of the Beast • The Limit • Video Makers • Heat Signature • Mortal Folly • Mortal Recoil Season 3 Conquest of Cuteness • Morituri Te Salutamus • Memory of a Memory • Hitman • Too Young • The Monster • Still • Wizard Battle • Fionna and Cake • What Was Missing • Apple Thief • The Creeps • From Bad to Worse • Beautopia • No One Can Hear You • Jake vs. Me-Mow • Thank You • The New Frontier • Holly Jolly Secrets Part I • Holly Jolly Secrets Part II • Marceline's Closet • Paper Pete • Another Way • Ghost Princess • Dad's Dungeon • Incendium Season 4 Hot to the Touch • Five Short Graybles • Web Weirdos • Dream of Love • Return to the Nightosphere • Daddy's Little Monster • In Your Footsteps • Hug Wolf • Princess Monster Wife • Goliad • Beyond this Earthly Realm • Gotcha! • Princess Cookie • Card Wars • Sons of Mars • Burning Low • BMO Noire • King Worm • Lady & Peebles • You Made Me • Who Would Win • Ignition Point • The Hard Easy • Reign of Gunters • I Remember You • The Lich Season 5 Finn the Human • Jake the Dog • Five More Short Graybles • Up a Tree • All the Little People • Jake the Dad • Davey • Mystery Dungeon • All Your Fault • Little Dude • Bad Little Boy • Vault of Bones • The Great Bird Man • Simon & Marcy • A Glitch is a Glitch • Puhoy • BMO Lost • Princess Potluck • James Baxter the Horse • Shh! • The Suitor • The Party's Over, Isla de Señorita • One Last Job • Another Five More Short Graybles • Candy Streets • Wizards Only, Fools • Jake Suit • Be More • Sky Witch • Frost & Fire • Too Old • Earth & Water • Time Sandwich • The Vault • Love Games • Dungeon Train • Box Prince • Red Starved • We Fixed a Truck • Play Date • The Pit • James • Root Beer Guy • Apple Wedding • Blade of Grass • Rattleballs • The Red Throne • Betty • Bad Timing • Lemonhope Part 1 • Lemonhope Part 2 • Billy's Bucket List Season 6 Wake Up • Escape from the Citadel • James II • The Tower • Sad Face • Breezy • Food Chain • Furniture & Meat • The Prince Who Wanted Everything • Something Big • Little Brother • Ocarina • Thanks for the Crabapples, Giuseppe! • Princess Day • Nemesis • Joshua and Margaret Investigations • Ghost Fly • Everything's Jake • Is That You? • Jake The Brick • Dentist • The Cooler • The Pajama War • Evergreen • Astral Plane • Gold Stars • The Visitor • The Mountain • Dark Purple • The Diary • Walnuts & Rain • Friends Forever • Jermaine • Chips and Ice Cream • Graybles 1000+ • Hoots • Water Park Prank • You Forgot Your Floaties • Be Sweet • Orgalorg • On the Lam • Hot Diggity Doom • The Comet Season 7 Bonnie and Neddy • Varmints • Cherry Cream Soda • Mama Said • Football Stakes Marceline The Vampire Queen • Everything Stays • Vamps About • The Empress Eyes • May I Come In? • Take Her Back • Checkmate • The Dark Cloud The More You Moe, The Moe You Know (Part I) • The More You Moe, The Moe You Know (Part II) • Summer Showers • Angel Face • President Porpoise is Missing! • Blank-Eyed Girl • Bad Jubies • King's Ransom • Scamps • Crossover • The Hall of Egress • Flute Spell • The Thin Yellow Line Season 8 Broke His Crown • Don't Look • Beyond the Grotto • Lady Rainicorn of the Crystal Dimension • I Am a Sword • Bun Bun • Normal Man • Elemental • Five Short Tables • The Music Hole • Daddy-Daughter Card Wars • Preboot • Reboot • Two Swords • Do No Harm • Wheels • High Strangeness • Horse and Ball • Jelly Beans Have Power Islands The Invitation • Whipple the Happy Dragon • Mysterious Island • Imaginary Resources • Hide and Seek • Min and Marty • Helpers • The Light Cloud Season 9 Orb Elements Skyhooks • Bespoken For • Winter Light • Cloudy • Slime Central • Happy Warrior • Hero Heart • Skyhooks II Abstract • Ketchup • Fionna and Cake and Fionna • Whispers • Three Buckets Season 10 The Wild Hunt • Always BMO Closing • Son of Rap Bear • Bonnibel Bubblegum • Seventeen • Ring of Fire • Marcy & Hunson • The First Investigation • Blenanas • Jake the Starchild • Temple of Mars • Gumbaldia • Come Along With Me Spin-offs The Adventure Time Movie Distant Lands BMO • Obsidian • Together Again • Wizard City Fionna & Cake Fionna Campbell • Simon Petrikov • Cake the Cat • Prismo the Wishmaster • Destiny • The Winter King • The Star • Jerry • Casper & Nova • Cheers Side Quests Heyo BMO Shorts and Specials Animated short • The Wand Graybles Allsorts All's Well That Rats Swell • Have You Seen the Muffin Mess • Sow, Do You Like Them Apples • The Gift That Reaps Giving Frog Seasons Spring • Summer • Autumn • Winter • Spring (Again) Minecraft SpecialDiamonds and Lemons Scrapped episodes and outlines Brothers in Insomnia • Boxcars & Bindles • Cloud Story • The Helmet of Thorogon • The Mumbling Man • Tower of Bone • Tree Problem • Hand! • Jakesuit • The Glorriors • Diamond Jim • Jake-Less • One Hot Worm • Original Season 9 Finale • Pink and Proud • Season 6 Basil Twist Episode • The Knight and the Werewolf • The Malteser Penguin • Untitled Adventure Time movie "No One Can Hear You" is the fifteenth episode in the third season of Adventure Time. It's the sixty-seventh episode overall. Contents 1 Synopsis 2 Plot 3 Characters 3.1 Major characters 3.2 Minor characters 4 Locations 5 Songs 6 Trivia 6.1 Cultural references 6.2 Storyline analysis 6.3 Errors 7 Videos 8 Censorship 9 Gallery 9.1 Production art 9.2 Background art 9.3 Screenshots 10 References Synopsis[] Finn and Jake stop an unearthly stag when Finn finds that his legs are broken, Jake has gone crazy, and all the Candy People are missing. Plot[] A deer is causing trouble in the Candy Kingdom by licking the Candy People's faces. Finn and Jake try to get rid of him, but he throws Jake off and kicks him in the head. Then, he breaks Finn's legs and knocks him out. Finn wakes up in a hospital room and tries to get Dr. Ice Cream's attention. Not getting a reply from anyone, he gets up and sits on a wheelchair next to his bed. He goes out for a stroll in the Candy Kingdom but cannot find anyone. He then finds Jake digging for food in a dumpster, occasionally reaching for a bandage on his head and saying "Ouchies," suggesting that he suffered a head injury. Jake explains that there is no one in the kingdom because he is waiting for the candy people to throw him a surprise party, stating that it is his birthday. At first, Finn believes this, shouting to the town, "I sure don't expect anyone to jump out at me!" Jake takes Finn back to his makeshift house, telling him to collect wood for a fire for hobo's. He agrees and starts to wander around. Raising his arms, he realizes that he has bad body odor. Wheeling over to a fountain, he removes his hat and shirt and bathes in the fountain. Finn wonders where everyone is, but Jake gets worried because he does not want Finn to look for everyone and "ruin the surprise." After that, the deer comes along, and Finn yells at him. He simply ignores this and gallops away. Finn hears noises coming from a nearby sewer, thinking that they sound like the Candy People. Finn then tells Jake about this, but Jake just tells him to give them more time for the surprise. Finn becomes a little frustrated about waiting all day for the alleged surprise party. Jake claims he has been waiting six months for people to come out, and bugs crawl out of his ears while he says this. Finn realizes that Jake has become insane, and that they are not friends anymore. Finn then attempts to make a daring escape for the sewer, but the vicious Jake stops him and destroys his wheelchair. Finn wakes up again, tied up to a post. Jake has several puppets out. He plays with them, saying "Happy Birthday, Jake!" Finn tricks Jake into letting him free, claiming that he will not run away from him. As soon as he is free, Finn tells Jake that he has a surprise for Jake, which he must close his eyes first. Immediately, Finn makes a run for the sewer. As a result, Jake tries to get him right on his tail, after realizing that Finn was lying to him. Finn goes down into the sewer and falls into the water in it. He swims out and runs through a passage until he finds a strange-looking door. He opens the door and finds the Candy People there stuck to the walls with an orange substance. Jake soon finds him in the sewer, becoming excited to see all of the Candy People, since he thinks that it is his birthday party. Finn tells him to stop acting crazy and punches him. This causes Jake to go back to normal. Finn explains that Jake trapped the Candy People down there for his own "birthday fantasy." Jake takes Peppermint Butler off the wall and apologizes to him. Peppermint Butler tells Jake that it was not he who trapped the Candy People and points to the hart standing behind them, saying that he did it. The deer walks up to them, stands on his hind legs, and removes his front hooves, revealing his hands. Finn tries to attack him while Jake frees the Candy People. Jake climbs up to free more Candy People and is right above Finn and the hart. He unties the strings that are tying the bricks to his feet, which fall on the hart, knocking him out. Finn and Princess Bubblegum push the hart into the sewer drain, where he is washed away by the current. Princess Bubblegum explains that the deer wanted their "sugar" and winks at Finn. Finn frowns and says "Boy, it stinks down here." They all proceed to go and take a bath. Jake carries everyone, and they float away on the balloons tied around Jake, holding on to each other by their legs. The episode ends with a Candy Person saying "I wanna get clean!" Characters[] Major characters[] Finn Jake Stag Minor characters[] Princess Bubblegum Lady Rainicorn (pictured/mentioned) Candy People Gingerbread Muto Mr. Candy Cane Chet Marc Dr. Ice Cream Starchy Pineapple Guy Peppermint Butler Banana Guard Root Beer Guy Grape Popsicle Guy Candy Heart Snail Locations[] Candy Kingdom Candy Kingdom Hospital Songs[] "Hobo Dreams" "Sun Flood" "Pixel Sprint" "Nintendub" Trivia[] Finn is seen bathing for the first time, contradicting his statement about not bathing in "Too Young". Gingerbread Muto appears at the beginning near one of the houses at the right side when Finn and Jake are chasing the Stag. When Finn looks into the sewer the first time, the manhole reads CKPW (presumably meaning: "Candy Kingdom Public Works") and has a picture of a cupcake. The title card music for "Five Short Graybles" plays toward the end of the episode, after the Stag washes down into the sewers. Cultural references[] The episode's title may be a reference to the tagline for the 1979 movie Alien, which was "In space, no one can hear you scream." Another reference to Alien is when Finn goes to the sewer and discovers that the Candy People are stuck on the walls by a kind of goo, much like what the Xenomorph do to their victims. The title card resembles the famous painting The Scream by Edvard Munch. When Finn runs away from Jake and his leg casts break is very similar to a scene from Forrest Gump where Forrest loses the braces on his legs as a kid. In Jake's tent is a picture of him and Finn that somewhat resembles characters drawn by artist Keith Haring. Finn waking up after a medical procedure only to find the Candy Kingdom empty and abandoned is similar to what happens to Cillian Murphy's character at the beginning of the movie 28 Days Later. The lettering on the title cards is similar to that of Saul Bass's work, better-known for making the title sequences and poster for many Alfred Hitchcock films. In Jake's tent there is a comic book called, "Man Man," which closely resembles the Batman comics. Continuing with the horror references, the fact that Stag's lair is down in the sewer (where he meets his demise), the imagery of the balloons Jake wears, and the haunting snippets of carnival music that play may be references to the story It by Stephen King. Storyline analysis[] Finn would have died if left in a coma unattended for more than a few days. However, there is a theory that each citizen in the Candy Kingdom was kidnapped one by one by the Stag within the 6 months time span-meaning that for every Candy Person that was kidnapped, there was still one to take care of Finn while he was in a coma, until the Stag kidnapped them. This could mean that Finn recovered shortly after the last Candy Person who took care of him (as well as the last one to go missing) was kidnapped by the Stag. Jake says that Finn had been in a coma for six months. However, Jake's head injury may have made him say a falsehood. This is supported by the fact that Finn says his legs are "still broken," despite him being shown to have extraordinary healing rates in other episodes. After six months, even a normal person's legs would be healed, but would have atrophied. However, it's also possible that his remark about his legs still being "broken" was a joke, considering he was laughing after saying so and Jake laughed with him. Errors[] When the comic Jake kept in the box is first seen, it says "Manly Man," but it says "Man Man" in its second appearance. Finn shouldn't have taken a shower in the fountain while in his cast, because casts aren't allowed to get wet. All the beds in the hospital have a sign to write names on at first, but the one with Finn's name and others disappear during Finn's stay. When Finn punches Jake, he lands next to a wrench and a toolbox, which is not seen again. When Jake regains consciousness, he is not behind a door, while in the next frame, he is. During the zoom out where Finn tells Jake he imprisoned the candy people, Peppermint Butler is not covered in saliva, and Princess Bubblegum disappears from where she was first seen. When Jake reaches out to free Peppermint Butler, he is covered in saliva again. In the final scene, Peppermint Butler and other candy people are not seen flying while hanging from each other's legs. It appears the number of candy people Finn first sees does not match the rescued ones. When Finn goes back to the tent to tell Jake that he heard candy people in the sewers, the knife Jake keeps in the box next to the mattress is no longer there. When Jake reveals he has been waiting for six months and bugs start to crawl on him, his cape is gone. It reappears as Finn starts to move away from the tent. When Finn "pops his top", his nipples are visible. However, when he walks into the fountain to bathe, they are gone. When the stag is hit with cinder blocks his fingers are shown. As the candy people roll him to the drain he has his hooves back on (and while spiraling down the drain). Videos[] Adventure Time - No One Can Hear You (extended preview)Long PreviewAdventure Time - No One Can Hear You (shorter preview)Short PreviewAdventure time hobo Jake song clip Censorship[] This episode was censored in some countries. See Censorship of Adventure Time for more information. Gallery[] Production art[] Promotional art by Ako Castuera & Jesse MoynihanTitle card sketch Background art[] Screenshots[] Non-denominational deerFinn gathering wood for the hutFinn bathing in a fountainA hobo fireDeleted sceneWill the madness never end?!He's gone crazy.Ouch, Jake made those knots tight.PHIL FACE on milk carton References[] ↑ http://www.spring.me/MrMuto/q/258344487535787212 v • d • eEpisodesSeason 1 Slumber Party Panic • Trouble in Lumpy Space • Prisoners of Love • Tree Trunks • The Enchiridion! • The Jiggler • Ricardio the Heart Guy • Evicted! • My Two Favorite People • Memories of Boom Boom Mountain • Wizard • Business Time • City of Thieves • The Witch's Garden • What is Life? • Ocean of Fear • When Wedding Bells Thaw • Dungeon • The Duke • Freak City • Donny • Henchman • Rainy Day Daydream • What Have You Done? • His Hero • Gut Grinder Season 2 It Came from the Nightosphere • The Eyes • Loyalty to the King • Blood Under the Skin • Storytelling • Slow Love • Power Animal • Crystals Have Power • The Other Tarts • To Cut a Woman's Hair • The Chamber of Frozen Blades • Her Parents • The Pods • The Silent King • The Real You • Guardians of Sunshine • Death in Bloom • Susan Strong • Mystery Train • Go With Me • Belly of the Beast • The Limit • Video Makers • Heat Signature • Mortal Folly • Mortal Recoil Season 3 Conquest of Cuteness • Morituri Te Salutamus • Memory of a Memory • Hitman • Too Young • The Monster • Still • Wizard Battle • Fionna and Cake • What Was Missing • Apple Thief • The Creeps • From Bad to Worse • Beautopia • No One Can Hear You • Jake vs. Me-Mow • Thank You • The New Frontier • Holly Jolly Secrets Part I • Holly Jolly Secrets Part II • Marceline's Closet • Paper Pete • Another Way • Ghost Princess • Dad's Dungeon • Incendium Season 4 Hot to the Touch • Five Short Graybles • Web Weirdos • Dream of Love • Return to the Nightosphere • Daddy's Little Monster • In Your Footsteps • Hug Wolf • Princess Monster Wife • Goliad • Beyond this Earthly Realm • Gotcha! • Princess Cookie • Card Wars • Sons of Mars • Burning Low • BMO Noire • King Worm • Lady & Peebles • You Made Me • Who Would Win • Ignition Point • The Hard Easy • Reign of Gunters • I Remember You • The Lich Season 5 Finn the Human • Jake the Dog • Five More Short Graybles • Up a Tree • All the Little People • Jake the Dad • Davey • Mystery Dungeon • All Your Fault • Little Dude • Bad Little Boy • Vault of Bones • The Great Bird Man • Simon & Marcy • A Glitch is a Glitch • Puhoy • BMO Lost • Princess Potluck • James Baxter the Horse • Shh! • The Suitor • The Party's Over, Isla de Señorita • One Last Job • Another Five More Short Graybles • Candy Streets • Wizards Only, Fools • Jake Suit • Be More • Sky Witch • Frost & Fire • Too Old • Earth & Water • Time Sandwich • The Vault • Love Games • Dungeon Train • Box Prince • Red Starved • We Fixed a Truck • Play Date • The Pit • James • Root Beer Guy • Apple Wedding • Blade of Grass • Rattleballs • The Red Throne • Betty • Bad Timing • Lemonhope Part 1 • Lemonhope Part 2 • Billy's Bucket List Season 6 Wake Up • Escape from the Citadel • James II • The Tower • Sad Face • Breezy • Food Chain • Furniture & Meat • The Prince Who Wanted Everything • Something Big • Little Brother • Ocarina • Thanks for the Crabapples, Giuseppe! • Princess Day • Nemesis • Joshua and Margaret Investigations • Ghost Fly • Everything's Jake • Is That You? • Jake The Brick • Dentist • The Cooler • The Pajama War • Evergreen • Astral Plane • Gold Stars • The Visitor • The Mountain • Dark Purple • The Diary • Walnuts & Rain • Friends Forever • Jermaine • Chips and Ice Cream • Graybles 1000+ • Hoots • Water Park Prank • You Forgot Your Floaties • Be Sweet • Orgalorg • On the Lam • Hot Diggity Doom • The Comet Season 7 Bonnie and Neddy • Varmints • Cherry Cream Soda • Mama Said • Football Stakes Marceline The Vampire Queen • Everything Stays • Vamps About • The Empress Eyes • May I Come In? • Take Her Back • Checkmate • The Dark Cloud The More You Moe, The Moe You Know (Part I) • The More You Moe, The Moe You Know (Part II) • Summer Showers • Angel Face • President Porpoise is Missing! • Blank-Eyed Girl • Bad Jubies • King's Ransom • Scamps • Crossover • The Hall of Egress • Flute Spell • The Thin Yellow Line Season 8 Broke His Crown • Don't Look • Beyond the Grotto • Lady Rainicorn of the Crystal Dimension • I Am a Sword • Bun Bun • Normal Man • Elemental • Five Short Tables • The Music Hole • Daddy-Daughter Card Wars • Preboot • Reboot • Two Swords • Do No Harm • Wheels • High Strangeness • Horse and Ball • Jelly Beans Have Power Islands The Invitation • Whipple the Happy Dragon • Mysterious Island • Imaginary Resources • Hide and Seek • Min and Marty • Helpers • The Light Cloud Season 9 Orb Elements Skyhooks • Bespoken For • Winter Light • Cloudy • Slime Central • Happy Warrior • Hero Heart • Skyhooks II Abstract • Ketchup • Fionna and Cake and Fionna • Whispers • Three Buckets Season 10 The Wild Hunt • Always BMO Closing • Son of Rap Bear • Bonnibel Bubblegum • Seventeen • Ring of Fire • Marcy & Hunson • The First Investigation • Blenanas • Jake the Starchild • Temple of Mars • Gumbaldia • Come Along With Me Spin-offs The Adventure Time Movie Distant Lands BMO • Obsidian • Together Again • Wizard City Fionna & Cake Fionna Campbell • Simon Petrikov • Cake the Cat • Prismo the Wishmaster • Destiny • The Winter King • The Star • Jerry • Casper & Nova • Cheers Side Quests Heyo BMO Shorts and Specials Animated short • The Wand Graybles Allsorts All's Well That Rats Swell • Have You Seen the Muffin Mess • Sow, Do You Like Them Apples • The Gift That Reaps Giving Frog Seasons Spring • Summer • Autumn • Winter • Spring (Again) Minecraft SpecialDiamonds and Lemons Scrapped episodes and outlines Brothers in Insomnia • Boxcars & Bindles • Cloud Story • The Helmet of Thorogon • The Mumbling Man • Tower of Bone • Tree Problem • Hand! • Jakesuit • The Glorriors • Diamond Jim • Jake-Less • One Hot Worm • Original Season 9 Finale • Pink and Proud • Season 6 Basil Twist Episode • The Knight and the Werewolf • The Malteser Penguin • Untitled Adventure Time movie "No One Can Hear You" is the fifteenth episode in the third season of Adventure Time. It's the sixty-seventh episode overall. Contents 1 Synopsis 2 Plot 3 Characters 3.1 Major characters 3.2 Minor characters 4 Locations 5 Songs 6 Trivia 6.1 Cultural references 6.2 Storyline analysis 6.3 Errors 7 Videos 8 Censorship 9 Gallery 9.1 Production art 9.2 Background art 9.3 Screenshots 10 References 3 Characters 3.1 Major characters 3.2 Minor characters 3.1 Major characters 3.2 Minor characters 4 Locations 6 Trivia 6.1 Cultural references 6.2 Storyline analysis 6.3 Errors 6.1 Cultural references 6.2 Storyline analysis 8 Censorship 9 Gallery 9.1 Production art 9.2 Background art 9.3 Screenshots 9.1 Production art 9.2 Background art 9.3 Screenshots 10 References Finn and Jake stop an unearthly stag when Finn finds that his legs are broken, Jake has gone crazy, and all the Candy People are missing. A deer is causing trouble in the Candy Kingdom by licking the Candy People's faces. Finn and Jake try to get rid of him, but he throws Jake off and kicks him in the head. Then, he breaks Finn's legs and knocks him out. Finn wakes up in a hospital room and tries to get Dr. Ice Cream's attention. Not getting a reply from anyone, he gets up and sits on a wheelchair next to his bed. He goes out for a stroll in the Candy Kingdom but cannot find anyone. He then finds Jake digging for food in a dumpster, occasionally reaching for a bandage on his head and saying "Ouchies," suggesting that he suffered a head injury. Jake explains that there is no one in the kingdom because he is waiting for the candy people to throw him a surprise party, stating that it is his birthday. At first, Finn believes this, shouting to the town, "I sure don't expect anyone to jump out at me!" Jake takes Finn back to his makeshift house, telling him to collect wood for a fire for hobo's. He agrees and starts to wander around. Raising his arms, he realizes that he has bad body odor. Wheeling over to a fountain, he removes his hat and shirt and bathes in the fountain. Finn wonders where everyone is, but Jake gets worried because he does not want Finn to look for everyone and "ruin the surprise." After that, the deer comes along, and Finn yells at him. He simply ignores this and gallops away. Finn hears noises coming from a nearby sewer, thinking that they sound like the Candy People. Finn then tells Jake about this, but Jake just tells him to give them more time for the surprise. Finn becomes a little frustrated about waiting all day for the alleged surprise party. Jake claims he has been waiting six months for people to come out, and bugs crawl out of his ears while he says this. Finn realizes that Jake has become insane, and that they are not friends anymore. Finn then attempts to make a daring escape for the sewer, but the vicious Jake stops him and destroys his wheelchair. Finn wakes up again, tied up to a post. Jake has several puppets out. He plays with them, saying "Happy Birthday, Jake!" Finn tricks Jake into letting him free, claiming that he will not run away from him. As soon as he is free, Finn tells Jake that he has a surprise for Jake, which he must close his eyes first. Immediately, Finn makes a run for the sewer. As a result, Jake tries to get him right on his tail, after realizing that Finn was lying to him. Finn goes down into the sewer and falls into the water in it. He swims out and runs through a passage until he finds a strange-looking door. He opens the door and finds the Candy People there stuck to the walls with an orange substance. Jake soon finds him in the sewer, becoming excited to see all of the Candy People, since he thinks that it is his birthday party. Finn tells him to stop acting crazy and punches him. This causes Jake to go back to normal. Finn explains that Jake trapped the Candy People down there for his own "birthday fantasy." Jake takes Peppermint Butler off the wall and apologizes to him. Peppermint Butler tells Jake that it was not he who trapped the Candy People and points to the hart standing behind them, saying that he did it. The deer walks up to them, stands on his hind legs, and removes his front hooves, revealing his hands. Finn tries to attack him while Jake frees the Candy People. Jake climbs up to free more Candy People and is right above Finn and the hart. He unties the strings that are tying the bricks to his feet, which fall on the hart, knocking him out. Finn and Princess Bubblegum push the hart into the sewer drain, where he is washed away by the current. Princess Bubblegum explains that the deer wanted their "sugar" and winks at Finn. Finn frowns and says "Boy, it stinks down here." They all proceed to go and take a bath. Jake carries everyone, and they float away on the balloons tied around Jake, holding on to each other by their legs. The episode ends with a Candy Person saying "I wanna get clean!" Characters[] Major characters[] Minor characters[] Princess Bubblegum Lady Rainicorn (pictured/mentioned) Candy People Gingerbread Muto Mr. Candy Cane Chet Marc Dr. Ice Cream Starchy Pineapple Guy Peppermint Butler Banana Guard Root Beer Guy Grape Popsicle Guy Candy Heart Gingerbread Muto Mr. Candy Cane Dr. Ice Cream Pineapple Guy Peppermint Butler Banana Guard Root Beer Guy Grape Popsicle Guy Candy Heart Locations[] Candy Kingdom Candy Kingdom Hospital "Hobo Dreams" "Sun Flood" "Pixel Sprint" "Nintendub" Finn is seen bathing for the first time, contradicting his statement about not bathing in "Too Young". Gingerbread Muto appears at the beginning near one of the houses at the right side when Finn and Jake are chasing the Stag. When Finn looks into the sewer the first time, the manhole reads CKPW (presumably meaning: "Candy Kingdom Public Works") and has a picture of a cupcake. The title card music for "Five Short Graybles" plays toward the end of the episode, after the Stag washes down into the sewers. Cultural references[] The episode's title may be a reference to the tagline for the 1979 movie Alien, which was "In space, no one can hear you scream." Another reference to Alien is when Finn goes to the sewer and discovers that the Candy People are stuck on the walls by a kind of goo, much like what the Xenomorph do to their victims. Another reference to Alien is when Finn goes to the sewer and discovers that the Candy People are stuck on the walls by a kind of goo, much like what the Xenomorph do to their victims. The title card resembles the famous painting The Scream by Edvard Munch. When Finn runs away from Jake and his leg casts break is very similar to a scene from Forrest Gump where Forrest loses the braces on his legs as a kid. In Jake's tent is a picture of him and Finn that somewhat resembles characters drawn by artist Keith Haring. Finn waking up after a medical procedure only to find the Candy Kingdom empty and abandoned is similar to what happens to Cillian Murphy's character at the beginning of the movie 28 Days Later. The lettering on the title cards is similar to that of Saul Bass's work, better-known for making the title sequences and poster for many Alfred Hitchcock films. In Jake's tent there is a comic book called, "Man Man," which closely resembles the Batman comics. Continuing with the horror references, the fact that Stag's lair is down in the sewer (where he meets his demise), the imagery of the balloons Jake wears, and the haunting snippets of carnival music that play may be references to the story It by Stephen King. Storyline analysis[] Finn would have died if left in a coma unattended for more than a few days. However, there is a theory that each citizen in the Candy Kingdom was kidnapped one by one by the Stag within the 6 months time span-meaning that for every Candy Person that was kidnapped, there was still one to take care of Finn while he was in a coma, until the Stag kidnapped them. This could mean that Finn recovered shortly after the last Candy Person who took care of him (as well as the last one to go missing) was kidnapped by the Stag. However, there is a theory that each citizen in the Candy Kingdom was kidnapped one by one by the Stag within the 6 months time span-meaning that for every Candy Person that was kidnapped, there was still one to take care of Finn while he was in a coma, until the Stag kidnapped them. This could mean that Finn recovered shortly after the last Candy Person who took care of him (as well as the last one to go missing) was kidnapped by the Stag. Jake says that Finn had been in a coma for six months. However, Jake's head injury may have made him say a falsehood. This is supported by the fact that Finn says his legs are "still broken," despite him being shown to have extraordinary healing rates in other episodes. After six months, even a normal person's legs would be healed, but would have atrophied. However, it's also possible that his remark about his legs still being "broken" was a joke, considering he was laughing after saying so and Jake laughed with him. This is supported by the fact that Finn says his legs are "still broken," despite him being shown to have extraordinary healing rates in other episodes. After six months, even a normal person's legs would be healed, but would have atrophied. However, it's also possible that his remark about his legs still being "broken" was a joke, considering he was laughing after saying so and Jake laughed with him. When the comic Jake kept in the box is first seen, it says "Manly Man," but it says "Man Man" in its second appearance. Finn shouldn't have taken a shower in the fountain while in his cast, because casts aren't allowed to get wet. All the beds in the hospital have a sign to write names on at first, but the one with Finn's name and others disappear during Finn's stay. When Finn punches Jake, he lands next to a wrench and a toolbox, which is not seen again. When Jake regains consciousness, he is not behind a door, while in the next frame, he is. During the zoom out where Finn tells Jake he imprisoned the candy people, Peppermint Butler is not covered in saliva, and Princess Bubblegum disappears from where she was first seen. When Jake reaches out to free Peppermint Butler, he is covered in saliva again. In the final scene, Peppermint Butler and other candy people are not seen flying while hanging from each other's legs. It appears the number of candy people Finn first sees does not match the rescued ones. When Finn goes back to the tent to tell Jake that he heard candy people in the sewers, the knife Jake keeps in the box next to the mattress is no longer there. When Jake reveals he has been waiting for six months and bugs start to crawl on him, his cape is gone. It reappears as Finn starts to move away from the tent. When Finn "pops his top", his nipples are visible. However, when he walks into the fountain to bathe, they are gone. When the stag is hit with cinder blocks his fingers are shown. As the candy people roll him to the drain he has his hooves back on (and while spiraling down the drain). Adventure Time - No One Can Hear You (extended preview)Long PreviewAdventure Time - No One Can Hear You (shorter preview)Short PreviewAdventure time hobo Jake song clip Adventure Time - No One Can Hear You (extended preview)Long Preview Adventure Time - No One Can Hear You (extended preview) Long Preview Adventure Time - No One Can Hear You (shorter preview)Short Preview Adventure Time - No One Can Hear You (shorter preview) Short Preview Adventure time hobo Jake song clip Adventure time hobo Jake song clip Censorship[] This episode was censored in some countries. See Censorship of Adventure Time for more information. Production art[] Promotional art by Ako Castuera & Jesse MoynihanTitle card sketch Promotional art by Ako Castuera & Jesse Moynihan Promotional art by Ako Castuera & Jesse Moynihan Title card sketch Title card sketch Background art[] Screenshots[] Non-denominational deerFinn gathering wood for the hutFinn bathing in a fountainA hobo fireDeleted sceneWill the madness never end?!He's gone crazy.Ouch, Jake made those knots tight.PHIL FACE on milk carton Non-denominational deer Non-denominational deer Finn gathering wood for the hut Finn gathering wood for the hut Finn bathing in a fountain Finn bathing in a fountain A hobo fire A hobo fire Deleted scene Deleted scene Will the madness never end?! Will the madness never end?! He's gone crazy. He's gone crazy. Ouch, Jake made those knots tight. Ouch, Jake made those knots tight. PHIL FACE on milk carton PHIL FACE on milk carton References[] ↑ http://www.spring.me/MrMuto/q/258344487535787212 ↑ http://www.spring.me/MrMuto/q/258344487535787212 ↑ http://www.spring.me/MrMuto/q/258344487535787212 Slumber Party Panic • Trouble in Lumpy Space • Prisoners of Love • Tree Trunks • The Enchiridion! • The Jiggler • Ricardio the Heart Guy • Evicted! • My Two Favorite People • Memories of Boom Boom Mountain • Wizard • Business Time • City of Thieves • The Witch's Garden • What is Life? • Ocean of Fear • When Wedding Bells Thaw • Dungeon • The Duke • Freak City • Donny • Henchman • Rainy Day Daydream • What Have You Done? • His Hero • Gut Grinder Slumber Party Panic • Trouble in Lumpy Space • Prisoners of Love • Tree Trunks • The Enchiridion! • The Jiggler • Ricardio the Heart Guy • Evicted! • My Two Favorite People • Memories of Boom Boom Mountain • Wizard • Business Time • City of Thieves • The Witch's Garden • What is Life? • Ocean of Fear • When Wedding Bells Thaw • Dungeon • The Duke • Freak City • Donny • Henchman • Rainy Day Daydream • What Have You Done? • His Hero • Gut Grinder Slumber Party Panic • Trouble in Lumpy Space • Prisoners of Love • Tree Trunks • The Enchiridion! • The Jiggler • Ricardio the Heart Guy • Evicted! • My Two Favorite People • Memories of Boom Boom Mountain • Wizard • Business Time • City of Thieves • The Witch's Garden • What is Life? • Ocean of Fear • When Wedding Bells Thaw • Dungeon • The Duke • Freak City • Donny • Henchman • Rainy Day Daydream • What Have You Done? • His Hero • Gut Grinder It Came from the Nightosphere • The Eyes • Loyalty to the King • Blood Under the Skin • Storytelling • Slow Love • Power Animal • Crystals Have Power • The Other Tarts • To Cut a Woman's Hair • The Chamber of Frozen Blades • Her Parents • The Pods • The Silent King • The Real You • Guardians of Sunshine • Death in Bloom • Susan Strong • Mystery Train • Go With Me • Belly of the Beast • The Limit • Video Makers • Heat Signature • Mortal Folly • Mortal Recoil It Came from the Nightosphere • The Eyes • Loyalty to the King • Blood Under the Skin • Storytelling • Slow Love • Power Animal • Crystals Have Power • The Other Tarts • To Cut a Woman's Hair • The Chamber of Frozen Blades • Her Parents • The Pods • The Silent King • The Real You • Guardians of Sunshine • Death in Bloom • Susan Strong • Mystery Train • Go With Me • Belly of the Beast • The Limit • Video Makers • Heat Signature • Mortal Folly • Mortal Recoil It Came from the Nightosphere • The Eyes • Loyalty to the King • Blood Under the Skin • Storytelling • Slow Love • Power Animal • Crystals Have Power • The Other Tarts • To Cut a Woman's Hair • The Chamber of Frozen Blades • Her Parents • The Pods • The Silent King • The Real You • Guardians of Sunshine • Death in Bloom • Susan Strong • Mystery Train • Go With Me • Belly of the Beast • The Limit • Video Makers • Heat Signature • Mortal Folly • Mortal Recoil Conquest of Cuteness • Morituri Te Salutamus • Memory of a Memory • Hitman • Too Young • The Monster • Still • Wizard Battle • Fionna and Cake • What Was Missing • Apple Thief • The Creeps • From Bad to Worse • Beautopia • No One Can Hear You • Jake vs. Me-Mow • Thank You • The New Frontier • Holly Jolly Secrets Part I • Holly Jolly Secrets Part II • Marceline's Closet • Paper Pete • Another Way • Ghost Princess • Dad's Dungeon • Incendium Conquest of Cuteness • Morituri Te Salutamus • Memory of a Memory • Hitman • Too Young • The Monster • Still • Wizard Battle • Fionna and Cake • What Was Missing • Apple Thief • The Creeps • From Bad to Worse • Beautopia • No One Can Hear You • Jake vs. Me-Mow • Thank You • The New Frontier • Holly Jolly Secrets Part I • Holly Jolly Secrets Part II • Marceline's Closet • Paper Pete • Another Way • Ghost Princess • Dad's Dungeon • Incendium Conquest of Cuteness • Morituri Te Salutamus • Memory of a Memory • Hitman • Too Young • The Monster • Still • Wizard Battle • Fionna and Cake • What Was Missing • Apple Thief • The Creeps • From Bad to Worse • Beautopia • No One Can Hear You • Jake vs. Me-Mow • Thank You • The New Frontier • Holly Jolly Secrets Part I • Holly Jolly Secrets Part II • Marceline's Closet • Paper Pete • Another Way • Ghost Princess • Dad's Dungeon • Incendium Hot to the Touch • Five Short Graybles • Web Weirdos • Dream of Love • Return to the Nightosphere • Daddy's Little Monster • In Your Footsteps • Hug Wolf • Princess Monster Wife • Goliad • Beyond this Earthly Realm • Gotcha! • Princess Cookie • Card Wars • Sons of Mars • Burning Low • BMO Noire • King Worm • Lady & Peebles • You Made Me • Who Would Win • Ignition Point • The Hard Easy • Reign of Gunters • I Remember You • The Lich Hot to the Touch • Five Short Graybles • Web Weirdos • Dream of Love • Return to the Nightosphere • Daddy's Little Monster • In Your Footsteps • Hug Wolf • Princess Monster Wife • Goliad • Beyond this Earthly Realm • Gotcha! • Princess Cookie • Card Wars • Sons of Mars • Burning Low • BMO Noire • King Worm • Lady & Peebles • You Made Me • Who Would Win • Ignition Point • The Hard Easy • Reign of Gunters • I Remember You • The Lich Hot to the Touch • Five Short Graybles • Web Weirdos • Dream of Love • Return to the Nightosphere • Daddy's Little Monster • In Your Footsteps • Hug Wolf • Princess Monster Wife • Goliad • Beyond this Earthly Realm • Gotcha! • Princess Cookie • Card Wars • Sons of Mars • Burning Low • BMO Noire • King Worm • Lady & Peebles • You Made Me • Who Would Win • Ignition Point • The Hard Easy • Reign of Gunters • I Remember You • The Lich Finn the Human • Jake the Dog • Five More Short Graybles • Up a Tree • All the Little People • Jake the Dad • Davey • Mystery Dungeon • All Your Fault • Little Dude • Bad Little Boy • Vault of Bones • The Great Bird Man • Simon & Marcy • A Glitch is a Glitch • Puhoy • BMO Lost • Princess Potluck • James Baxter the Horse • Shh! • The Suitor • The Party's Over, Isla de Señorita • One Last Job • Another Five More Short Graybles • Candy Streets • Wizards Only, Fools • Jake Suit • Be More • Sky Witch • Frost & Fire • Too Old • Earth & Water • Time Sandwich • The Vault • Love Games • Dungeon Train • Box Prince • Red Starved • We Fixed a Truck • Play Date • The Pit • James • Root Beer Guy • Apple Wedding • Blade of Grass • Rattleballs • The Red Throne • Betty • Bad Timing • Lemonhope Part 1 • Lemonhope Part 2 • Billy's Bucket List Finn the Human • Jake the Dog • Five More Short Graybles • Up a Tree • All the Little People • Jake the Dad • Davey • Mystery Dungeon • All Your Fault • Little Dude • Bad Little Boy • Vault of Bones • The Great Bird Man • Simon & Marcy • A Glitch is a Glitch • Puhoy • BMO Lost • Princess Potluck • James Baxter the Horse • Shh! • The Suitor • The Party's Over, Isla de Señorita • One Last Job • Another Five More Short Graybles • Candy Streets • Wizards Only, Fools • Jake Suit • Be More • Sky Witch • Frost & Fire • Too Old • Earth & Water • Time Sandwich • The Vault • Love Games • Dungeon Train • Box Prince • Red Starved • We Fixed a Truck • Play Date • The Pit • James • Root Beer Guy • Apple Wedding • Blade of Grass • Rattleballs • The Red Throne • Betty • Bad Timing • Lemonhope Part 1 • Lemonhope Part 2 • Billy's Bucket List Finn the Human • Jake the Dog • Five More Short Graybles • Up a Tree • All the Little People • Jake the Dad • Davey • Mystery Dungeon • All Your Fault • Little Dude • Bad Little Boy • Vault of Bones • The Great Bird Man • Simon & Marcy • A Glitch is a Glitch • Puhoy • BMO Lost • Princess Potluck • James Baxter the Horse • Shh! • The Suitor • The Party's Over, Isla de Señorita • One Last Job • Another Five More Short Graybles • Candy Streets • Wizards Only, Fools • Jake Suit • Be More • Sky Witch • Frost & Fire • Too Old • Earth & Water • Time Sandwich • The Vault • Love Games • Dungeon Train • Box Prince • Red Starved • We Fixed a Truck • Play Date • The Pit • James • Root Beer Guy • Apple Wedding • Blade of Grass • Rattleballs • The Red Throne • Betty • Bad Timing • Lemonhope Part 1 • Lemonhope Part 2 • Billy's Bucket List Wake Up • Escape from the Citadel • James II • The Tower • Sad Face • Breezy • Food Chain • Furniture & Meat • The Prince Who Wanted Everything • Something Big • Little Brother • Ocarina • Thanks for the Crabapples, Giuseppe! • Princess Day • Nemesis • Joshua and Margaret Investigations • Ghost Fly • Everything's Jake • Is That You? • Jake The Brick • Dentist • The Cooler • The Pajama War • Evergreen • Astral Plane • Gold Stars • The Visitor • The Mountain • Dark Purple • The Diary • Walnuts & Rain • Friends Forever • Jermaine • Chips and Ice Cream • Graybles 1000+ • Hoots • Water Park Prank • You Forgot Your Floaties • Be Sweet • Orgalorg • On the Lam • Hot Diggity Doom • The Comet Wake Up • Escape from the Citadel • James II • The Tower • Sad Face • Breezy • Food Chain • Furniture & Meat • The Prince Who Wanted Everything • Something Big • Little Brother • Ocarina • Thanks for the Crabapples, Giuseppe! • Princess Day • Nemesis • Joshua and Margaret Investigations • Ghost Fly • Everything's Jake • Is That You? • Jake The Brick • Dentist • The Cooler • The Pajama War • Evergreen • Astral Plane • Gold Stars • The Visitor • The Mountain • Dark Purple • The Diary • Walnuts & Rain • Friends Forever • Jermaine • Chips and Ice Cream • Graybles 1000+ • Hoots • Water Park Prank • You Forgot Your Floaties • Be Sweet • Orgalorg • On the Lam • Hot Diggity Doom • The Comet Wake Up • Escape from the Citadel • James II • The Tower • Sad Face • Breezy • Food Chain • Furniture & Meat • The Prince Who Wanted Everything • Something Big • Little Brother • Ocarina • Thanks for the Crabapples, Giuseppe! • Princess Day • Nemesis • Joshua and Margaret Investigations • Ghost Fly • Everything's Jake • Is That You? • Jake The Brick • Dentist • The Cooler • The Pajama War • Evergreen • Astral Plane • Gold Stars • The Visitor • The Mountain • Dark Purple • The Diary • Walnuts & Rain • Friends Forever • Jermaine • Chips and Ice Cream • Graybles 1000+ • Hoots • Water Park Prank • You Forgot Your Floaties • Be Sweet • Orgalorg • On the Lam • Hot Diggity Doom • The Comet Bonnie and Neddy • Varmints • Cherry Cream Soda • Mama Said • Football Stakes Marceline The Vampire Queen • Everything Stays • Vamps About • The Empress Eyes • May I Come In? • Take Her Back • Checkmate • The Dark Cloud The More You Moe, The Moe You Know (Part I) • The More You Moe, The Moe You Know (Part II) • Summer Showers • Angel Face • President Porpoise is Missing! • Blank-Eyed Girl • Bad Jubies • King's Ransom • Scamps • Crossover • The Hall of Egress • Flute Spell • The Thin Yellow Line Bonnie and Neddy • Varmints • Cherry Cream Soda • Mama Said • Football Bonnie and Neddy • Varmints • Cherry Cream Soda • Mama Said • Football Marceline The Vampire Queen • Everything Stays • Vamps About • The Empress Eyes • May I Come In? • Take Her Back • Checkmate • The Dark Cloud Marceline The Vampire Queen • Everything Stays • Vamps About • The Empress Eyes • May I Come In? • Take Her Back • Checkmate • The Dark Cloud Marceline The Vampire Queen • Everything Stays • Vamps About • The Empress Eyes • May I Come In? • Take Her Back • Checkmate • The Dark Cloud The More You Moe, The Moe You Know (Part I) • The More You Moe, The Moe You Know (Part II) • Summer Showers • Angel Face • President Porpoise is Missing! • Blank-Eyed Girl • Bad Jubies • King's Ransom • Scamps • Crossover • The Hall of Egress • Flute Spell • The Thin Yellow Line The More You Moe, The Moe You Know (Part I) • The More You Moe, The Moe You Know (Part II) • Summer Showers • Angel Face • President Porpoise is Missing! • Blank-Eyed Girl • Bad Jubies • King's Ransom • Scamps • Crossover • The Hall of Egress • Flute Spell • The Thin Yellow Line Broke His Crown • Don't Look • Beyond the Grotto • Lady Rainicorn of the Crystal Dimension • I Am a Sword • Bun Bun • Normal Man • Elemental • Five Short Tables • The Music Hole • Daddy-Daughter Card Wars • Preboot • Reboot • Two Swords • Do No Harm • Wheels • High Strangeness • Horse and Ball • Jelly Beans Have Power Islands The Invitation • Whipple the Happy Dragon • Mysterious Island • Imaginary Resources • Hide and Seek • Min and Marty • Helpers • The Light Cloud Broke His Crown • Don't Look • Beyond the Grotto • Lady Rainicorn of the Crystal Dimension • I Am a Sword • Bun Bun • Normal Man • Elemental • Five Short Tables • The Music Hole • Daddy-Daughter Card Wars • Preboot • Reboot • Two Swords • Do No Harm • Wheels • High Strangeness • Horse and Ball • Jelly Beans Have Power Broke His Crown • Don't Look • Beyond the Grotto • Lady Rainicorn of the Crystal Dimension • I Am a Sword • Bun Bun • Normal Man • Elemental • Five Short Tables • The Music Hole • Daddy-Daughter Card Wars • Preboot • Reboot • Two Swords • Do No Harm • Wheels • High Strangeness • Horse and Ball • Jelly Beans Have Power The Invitation • Whipple the Happy Dragon • Mysterious Island • Imaginary Resources • Hide and Seek • Min and Marty • Helpers • The Light Cloud The Invitation • Whipple the Happy Dragon • Mysterious Island • Imaginary Resources • Hide and Seek • Min and Marty • Helpers • The Light Cloud The Invitation • Whipple the Happy Dragon • Mysterious Island • Imaginary Resources • Hide and Seek • Min and Marty • Helpers • The Light Cloud Orb Elements Skyhooks • Bespoken For • Winter Light • Cloudy • Slime Central • Happy Warrior • Hero Heart • Skyhooks II Abstract • Ketchup • Fionna and Cake and Fionna • Whispers • Three Buckets Skyhooks • Bespoken For • Winter Light • Cloudy • Slime Central • Happy Warrior • Hero Heart • Skyhooks II Skyhooks • Bespoken For • Winter Light • Cloudy • Slime Central • Happy Warrior • Hero Heart • Skyhooks II Skyhooks • Bespoken For • Winter Light • Cloudy • Slime Central • Happy Warrior • Hero Heart • Skyhooks II Abstract • Ketchup • Fionna and Cake and Fionna • Whispers • Three Buckets Abstract • Ketchup • Fionna and Cake and Fionna • Whispers • Three Buckets The Wild Hunt • Always BMO Closing • Son of Rap Bear • Bonnibel Bubblegum • Seventeen • Ring of Fire • Marcy & Hunson • The First Investigation • Blenanas • Jake the Starchild • Temple of Mars • Gumbaldia • Come Along With Me The Wild Hunt • Always BMO Closing • Son of Rap Bear • Bonnibel Bubblegum • Seventeen • Ring of Fire • Marcy & Hunson • The First Investigation • Blenanas • Jake the Starchild • Temple of Mars • Gumbaldia • Come Along With Me The Wild Hunt • Always BMO Closing • Son of Rap Bear • Bonnibel Bubblegum • Seventeen • Ring of Fire • Marcy & Hunson • The First Investigation • Blenanas • Jake the Starchild • Temple of Mars • Gumbaldia • Come Along With Me The Adventure Time Movie Distant Lands BMO • Obsidian • Together Again • Wizard City Fionna & Cake Fionna Campbell • Simon Petrikov • Cake the Cat • Prismo the Wishmaster • Destiny • The Winter King • The Star • Jerry • Casper & Nova • Cheers Side Quests Heyo BMO The Adventure Time Movie The Adventure Time Movie BMO • Obsidian • Together Again • Wizard City BMO • Obsidian • Together Again • Wizard City BMO • Obsidian • Together Again • Wizard City Fionna Campbell • Simon Petrikov • Cake the Cat • Prismo the Wishmaster • Destiny • The Winter King • The Star • Jerry • Casper & Nova • Cheers Fionna Campbell • Simon Petrikov • Cake the Cat • Prismo the Wishmaster • Destiny • The Winter King • The Star • Jerry • Casper & Nova • Cheers Fionna Campbell • Simon Petrikov • Cake the Cat • Prismo the Wishmaster • Destiny • The Winter King • The Star • Jerry • Casper & Nova • Cheers Animated short • The Wand Graybles Allsorts All's Well That Rats Swell • Have You Seen the Muffin Mess • Sow, Do You Like Them Apples • The Gift That Reaps Giving Frog Seasons Spring • Summer • Autumn • Winter • Spring (Again) Minecraft SpecialDiamonds and Lemons Animated short • The Wand Animated short • The Wand All's Well That Rats Swell • Have You Seen the Muffin Mess • Sow, Do You Like Them Apples • The Gift That Reaps Giving All's Well That Rats Swell • Have You Seen the Muffin Mess • Sow, Do You Like Them Apples • The Gift That Reaps Giving All's Well That Rats Swell • Have You Seen the Muffin Mess • Sow, Do You Like Them Apples • The Gift That Reaps Giving Spring • Summer • Autumn • Winter • Spring (Again) Spring • Summer • Autumn • Winter • Spring (Again) Spring • Summer • Autumn • Winter • Spring (Again) Diamonds and Lemons Brothers in Insomnia • Boxcars & Bindles • Cloud Story • The Helmet of Thorogon • The Mumbling Man • Tower of Bone • Tree Problem • Hand! • Jakesuit • The Glorriors • Diamond Jim • Jake-Less • One Hot Worm • Original Season 9 Finale • Pink and Proud • Season 6 Basil Twist Episode • The Knight and the Werewolf • The Malteser Penguin • Untitled Adventure Time movie Brothers in Insomnia • Boxcars & Bindles • Cloud Story • The Helmet of Thorogon • The Mumbling Man • Tower of Bone • Tree Problem • Hand! • Jakesuit • The Glorriors • Diamond Jim • Jake-Less • One Hot Worm • Original Season 9 Finale • Pink and Proud • Season 6 Basil Twist Episode • The Knight and the Werewolf • The Malteser Penguin • Untitled Adventure Time movie Brothers in Insomnia • Boxcars & Bindles • Cloud Story • The Helmet of Thorogon • The Mumbling Man • Tower of Bone • Tree Problem • Hand! • Jakesuit • The Glorriors • Diamond Jim • Jake-Less • One Hot Worm • Original Season 9 Finale • Pink and Proud • Season 6 Basil Twist Episode • The Knight and the Werewolf • The Malteser Penguin • Untitled Adventure Time movie Español Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. Fantasy Sci-fi Adventure Time Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. Fantasy Sci-fi Adventure Time Fantasy Sci-fi Adventure Time Fantasy Sci-fi Adventure Time Adventure Time