Source: https://2loud2oldmusic.com/2019/10/20/my-sunday-song-stones-under-rushing-water-by-needtobreathe/
Title: My Sunday Song – “Stones Under Rushing Water” by Needtobreathe – 2 Loud 2 Old Music
Words: 2061

================================================================================

For My Sunday Song #166, we are discussing “Stones Under Rushing Water” by Needtobreathe. The song is off their 2009 album “The Outsiders” and it shows the softer side of the band. The album was really the bands big break and ended up getting them noticed by Taylor Swift and the band opened for her on tour for a large number of shows. I had found the band from the beginning so there growing success was no surprise to me. The song is a really simple song lyrically. It talks about how fast life passes us by and it will be gone before you know it. He is telling you to slow things down, take it all in and cherish every moment. It also seems to be about a relationship that has drifted apart and the spark has left them. They need to stop long enough to remember what they had and find that spark again. Either interpretation is right as you can make up your own mind on what it means to you. Musically, the song is an acoustic track and one of the first duets the band has done. Sara Watkins from the band Nickel Creek accompanies Bear Rinehart on vocals. Her voice is so delicate and beautiful and compliments his vocals quite nicely. She brings that extra layer of sadness and heartbreak to the song. There is no guitar solo, but Bear does a harmonica solo that adds a whole new layer of melancholy to the song. All in all, it is quite a beautifully sad song. Give the song a listen and let me know what you think. I think what he is saying is true and we do fly through life and it passes us by too quickly. I still can’t believe my girls are already 16 and 12. It is going by way too fast and I am trying to hold on and slow down as much as I can. I hope you enjoyed the song and have a Happy Sunday! “Stones Under Rushing Water” Why don’t we dance anymore I’m not ok with that Why don’t we laugh anymore I’m not ok with that The years go by like stones under rushing water We only know when it’s gone Why don’t we smile anymore I’m not ok with that Why don’t we dance slowly I’m not ok with that The years go by like stones under rushing water We only know when it’s gone The years go by like stones under rushing water We only know when it’s gone Why don’t we dance anymore I’m not ok with that Written by Bear and Bo Rinehart Share this:Tweet Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to share on Threads (Opens in new window) Threads Click to share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Like Loading. Related For My Sunday Song #166, we are discussing “Stones Under Rushing Water” by Needtobreathe. The song is off their 2009 album “The Outsiders” and it shows the softer side of the band. The album was really the bands big break and ended up getting them noticed by Taylor Swift and the band opened for her on tour for a large number of shows. I had found the band from the beginning so there growing success was no surprise to me. The song is a really simple song lyrically. It talks about how fast life passes us by and it will be gone before you know it. He is telling you to slow things down, take it all in and cherish every moment. It also seems to be about a relationship that has drifted apart and the spark has left them. They need to stop long enough to remember what they had and find that spark again. Either interpretation is right as you can make up your own mind on what it means to you. Musically, the song is an acoustic track and one of the first duets the band has done. Sara Watkins from the band Nickel Creek accompanies Bear Rinehart on vocals. Her voice is so delicate and beautiful and compliments his vocals quite nicely. She brings that extra layer of sadness and heartbreak to the song. There is no guitar solo, but Bear does a harmonica solo that adds a whole new layer of melancholy to the song. All in all, it is quite a beautifully sad song. Give the song a listen and let me know what you think. I think what he is saying is true and we do fly through life and it passes us by too quickly. I still can’t believe my girls are already 16 and 12. It is going by way too fast and I am trying to hold on and slow down as much as I can. I hope you enjoyed the song and have a Happy Sunday! “Stones Under Rushing Water” Why don’t we dance anymore I’m not ok with that Why don’t we laugh anymore I’m not ok with that The years go by like stones under rushing water We only know when it’s gone Why don’t we smile anymore I’m not ok with that Why don’t we dance slowly I’m not ok with that The years go by like stones under rushing water We only know when it’s gone The years go by like stones under rushing water We only know when it’s gone Why don’t we dance anymore I’m not ok with that The years go by like stones under rushing water We only know when it’s gone Why don’t we smile anymore I’m not ok with that Why don’t we dance slowly I’m not ok with that The years go by like stones under rushing water We only know when it’s gone The years go by like stones under rushing water We only know when it’s gone Why don’t we dance anymore I’m not ok with that Written by Bear and Bo Rinehart Share this:Tweet Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to share on Threads (Opens in new window) Threads Click to share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Like Loading. Related Share this:Tweet Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to share on Threads (Opens in new window) Threads Click to share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Share this:Tweet Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to share on Threads (Opens in new window) Threads Click to share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Share this: Tweet Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to share on Threads (Opens in new window) Threads Click to share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to share on Threads (Opens in new window) Threads Click to share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Like Loading. Like Loading. 6 thoughts on “My Sunday Song – “Stones Under Rushing Water” by Needtobreathe” I believe it was Sir Elton that said Sad Songs say so much – and our girls keep growing too, seemingly at lightning speeds! LikeLiked by 1 person Reply Yes, I believe he did say that. LikeLiked by 1 person Reply Nice kind of a left-hand turn around to this tune in regards to a duet. Time does not indeed wait for anyone John. My oldest daughter is 22 and my twins are 20. Man,​ where have the years gone! LikeLiked by 1 person Reply This is one of my favorites by them and it makes me a little sad when I hear it because every time I think back to when they were young and how young my wife and I were. By the end though I have a smile on face as I know they are growing in to wonderful women! LikeLiked by 1 person Reply Absolutely. No doubt about that in my mind John! You’re a stand-up​ guy plus a Hard Rock n Roller! LikeLiked by 1 person Reply Thanks! LikeLiked by 1 person Reply Leave a comment Cancel reply Δ 6 thoughts on “My Sunday Song – “Stones Under Rushing Water” by Needtobreathe” I believe it was Sir Elton that said Sad Songs say so much – and our girls keep growing too, seemingly at lightning speeds! LikeLiked by 1 person Reply Yes, I believe he did say that. LikeLiked by 1 person Reply I believe it was Sir Elton that said Sad Songs say so much – and our girls keep growing too, seemingly at lightning speeds! LikeLiked by 1 person I believe it was Sir Elton that said Sad Songs say so much – and our girls keep growing too, seemingly at lightning speeds! LikeLiked by 1 person Yes, I believe he did say that. LikeLiked by 1 person Reply Yes, I believe he did say that. LikeLiked by 1 person Yes, I believe he did say that. LikeLiked by 1 person Nice kind of a left-hand turn around to this tune in regards to a duet. Time does not indeed wait for anyone John. My oldest daughter is 22 and my twins are 20. Man,​ where have the years gone! LikeLiked by 1 person Reply This is one of my favorites by them and it makes me a little sad when I hear it because every time I think back to when they were young and how young my wife and I were. By the end though I have a smile on face as I know they are growing in to wonderful women! LikeLiked by 1 person Reply Absolutely. No doubt about that in my mind John! You’re a stand-up​ guy plus a Hard Rock n Roller! LikeLiked by 1 person Reply Thanks! LikeLiked by 1 person Reply Nice kind of a left-hand turn around to this tune in regards to a duet. Time does not indeed wait for anyone John. My oldest daughter is 22 and my twins are 20. Man,​ where have the years gone! LikeLiked by 1 person Nice kind of a left-hand turn around to this tune in regards to a duet. Time does not indeed wait for anyone John. My oldest daughter is 22 and my twins are 20. Man,​ where have the years gone! LikeLiked by 1 person This is one of my favorites by them and it makes me a little sad when I hear it because every time I think back to when they were young and how young my wife and I were. By the end though I have a smile on face as I know they are growing in to wonderful women! LikeLiked by 1 person Reply Absolutely. No doubt about that in my mind John! You’re a stand-up​ guy plus a Hard Rock n Roller! LikeLiked by 1 person Reply Thanks! LikeLiked by 1 person Reply This is one of my favorites by them and it makes me a little sad when I hear it because every time I think back to when they were young and how young my wife and I were. By the end though I have a smile on face as I know they are growing in to wonderful women! LikeLiked by 1 person This is one of my favorites by them and it makes me a little sad when I hear it because every time I think back to when they were young and how young my wife and I were. By the end though I have a smile on face as I know they are growing in to wonderful women! LikeLiked by 1 person Absolutely. No doubt about that in my mind John! You’re a stand-up​ guy plus a Hard Rock n Roller! LikeLiked by 1 person Reply Thanks! LikeLiked by 1 person Reply Absolutely. No doubt about that in my mind John! You’re a stand-up​ guy plus a Hard Rock n Roller! LikeLiked by 1 person Absolutely. No doubt about that in my mind John! You’re a stand-up​ guy plus a Hard Rock n Roller! LikeLiked by 1 person Thanks! LikeLiked by 1 person Reply Thanks! LikeLiked by 1 person LikeLiked by 1 person Leave a comment Cancel reply Δ Leave a comment Cancel reply