Source: https://a-z-animals.com/articles/discover-the-top-largest-islands-in-the-mediterranean-sea/
Title: Discover the Top 20 Largest Islands in the Mediterranean Sea - A-Z Animals
Words: 6268

================================================================================

Izabela23/Shutterstock.com Izabela23/Shutterstock.com Written by Niccoy Walker Updated: November 14, 2023 Share on: How to Add Us to Google News Sending You to Google News in 3 Written by Niccoy Walker Updated: November 14, 2023 Written by Niccoy Walker Updated: November 14, 2023 Share on: How to Add Us to Google News Sending You to Google News in 3 How to Add Us to Google News Sending You to Google News in 3 How to Add Us to Google News Sending You to Google News in 3 How to Add Us to Google News Sending You to Google News in 3 How to Add Us to Google News How to Add Us to Google News Sending You to Google News in 3 Advertisement Almost completely enclosed by land, yet still connected to the Atlantic Ocean, the Mediterranean Sea is a large body of water surrounded by Southern Europe, North Africa, and West Asia. There are more than 3,300 islands in the Mediterranean, many of which are small. Some are of volcanic origin. Check out this list of the top 20 largest islands in the Mediterranean Sea and learn about their countries and square miles.CresCres is a Croatian island that features several small villages.©Ilija Ascic/Shutterstock.comThe island of Cres is the 20th-largest island in the Mediterranean Sea. It resides in Croatia and is one of the northern islands in the Kvarner Gulf. Cres is 405 square kilometers and features several small villages.ZakynthosThe Greek island of Zakynthos is a popular tourist destination.©smoxx/Shutterstock.comZakynthos is 156 square miles and features a coastline of 76 miles. It is part of Greece and sits in the Ionian Sea, an elongated bay of the Mediterranean. This island is popular among tourists for its beautiful beaches and lush landscape.NaxosNaxos is known for its unique granular rocks.©Sven Hansche/Shutterstock.comThis Greek island is the largest of the Cyclades, an island group in the Aegean Sea. Naxos features an area of 170 square miles (430 square kilometers) and is famous for its abundant emery, a granular rock used to make abrasive powder.SamosSamos is famous for its vineyards and wine production.©Georgios Tsichlis/Shutterstock.comThe island of Samos is a Greek island in the Eastern Aegean Sea, an elongated embayment of the Mediterranean. Samos was once rich and powerful and known for its vineyards and wine production.LemnosThe island of Lemnos resides in the North Aegean region.©Georgios Tsichlis/Shutterstock.comLemnos, or Limnos, is a Greek island part of the North Aegean region and is the 18th largest island in Greece, with 184 square miles (477 square kilometers). This island is rich in unique cheeses, fruits, and vegetables.DjerbaLocated in North Africa, Djerba is 198 square miles.©BTWImages/Shutterstock.comDjerba is a Tunisian island and the largest in North Africa, measuring 198 square miles (514 square kilometers). Due to its rich ancient history, the island of Djerba was designated a World Heritage Site in 2023.IbizaIbiza is known for its nightlife and club scene.©iStock.com/amoklvThe Spanish island of Ibiza is off the coast of the Iberian Peninsula and is the third-largest of the Balearic Islands, an archipelago in the Western Mediterranean. Ibiza is famous for its nightlife and electronic dance club scene.CorfuCorfu has a rich history.©Balate Dorin/iStock via Getty ImagesThe Greek island of Corfu is in the Ionian Sea and its several islands make up the northwestern frontier of Greece. This island has a rich history beginning in Greek mythology with many stories of battles and conquests.MenorcaThe island of Menorca has one of the largest natural ports in the world.©Serenity-H/Shutterstock.comMenorca belongs to Spain and is one of the Balearic Islands in the Mediterranean. This island is famous for its large natural port in Mahon and for its indication of very early human activity.CephaloniaGorgeous Cephalonia is a lush Greek island and part of the Ionian Islands.©Izabela23/Shutterstock.comCephalonia, also known as Kefalonia, is a Greek island and the largest of the Ionian Islands. It is also the sixth-largest island in Greece, featuring a total land area of 303 square miles. The island has rich biodiversity and lies in an active earthquake zone.ChiosThe island of Chios is known for its medieval villages.©Georgios Tsichlis/Shutterstock.comAs the tenth-largest island in the Mediterranean Sea, Chios is 325 square miles (842 square kilometers). It is also the fifth-largest Greek island and sits in the Northern Aegean Sea. The island of Chios is famous for its tourist attractions, such as its medieval villages and UNESCO World Heritage Sites.RhodesThe island of Rhodes was once home to one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World.©iStock.com/Vladislav ZolotovRhodes is the largest of the Dodecanese Islands of Greece, a group of islands in the Southeastern Aegean Sea and Eastern Mediterranean. The island was once home to one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World, a statue of a Greek Titan god. LesbosThe island of Lesbos was home to Sappho, the ancient Greek poet.©leoks/Shutterstock.comLesbos, or Lesvos, is a Greek island in the Northeastern Aegean Sea. It is 631 square miles (1,633 square kilometers) and contains around 250 miles of coastline. Lesbos is often called the “Island of Poets,” as it was home to the ancient Greek poet Sappho. This island is the third largest in Greece and the eighth largest in the Mediterranean.MallorcaThe Spanish island of Mallorca is a popular holiday destination.©iStock.com/Balate DorinMallorca is the largest of the Balearic Islands, an archipelago in the Western Mediterranean. This island belongs to Spain and encompasses 1,405 square miles (3,640 square kilometers), making it the seventh largest in the Mediterranean Sea. Mallorca is a popular holiday destination for its beautiful scenery and lively culture.EuboeaEuboea is a long and narrow Greek island.©Georgios Tsichlis/Shutterstock.comAs the second-largest Greek Island, Euboea is 1,422 square miles (3,684 square kilometers). It is long and narrow, about 110 miles long and 3.7 miles wide. Along with beaches and island towns, Euboea contains a mountain range that runs northwest to southeast.CreteCrete is the largest Greek island and the fifth largest in the Mediterranean.©leoks/Shutterstock.comThe island of Crete is the largest of the Greek Islands and the fifth-largest in the Mediterranean. It resides nearly 100 miles south of the mainland and encompasses 3,260 square miles (8,450 square kilometers). Crete has a long history and was one of Europe’s first advanced civilizations.CorsicaThe French island of Corsica is one of the least-populated regions of France.©Zoltan Szabo Photography/Shutterstock.comCorsica is one of the 18 regions of France and the fourth-largest island in the Mediterranean Sea. This island has a total area of 3,368 square miles (8,722 square kilometers) and a single chain of mountains make up a large portion of the island.CyprusThe highest point in Cyprus is Mount Olympus.©Serenity-H/Shutterstock.comCyprus is an island country located south of the Anatolian Peninsula. While this country is technically in West Asia, it is considered a European country. As the third-largest island in the Mediterranean Sea, Cyprus has a total area of 3,572 square miles (9,251 square kilometers). Its highest point is Mount Olympus.SardiniaThe Italian island of Sardinia is 9,300 square miles.©Vladimir Sazonov/Shutterstock.comSardinia is a region of Italy and the second-largest island in the Mediterranean. It resides west of the Italian Peninsula and north of Tunisia. This large island is 9,300 square miles (24,090 square kilometers) and contains mountains, plains, woods, and rocky coasts.SicilySicily is the largest island in the Mediterranean and contains Europe’s largest active volcano.©Simoncountry/Shutterstock.comWith a total area of 9,927 square miles (25,711 square kilometers), Sicily is the largest island in the Mediterranean Sea. It is a region of Italy and contains 4.8 million people. It sits in the central region of the sea and contains Mount Etna, the tallest active volcano in Europe. Humans have inhabited the island of Sicily since 14,000 BC and had dozens of Greek colonies by 750 BC.A Summary of the 20 Largest Islands in the Mediterranean SeaRankLargest Islands in the Mediterranean SeaCountryArea (Square Kilometers)#1SicilyItaly25,834#2SardiniaItaly24,100#3CyprusCyprus9,251#4CorsicaFrance8,681#5CreteGreece8,312#6EuboeaGreece3,655#7MallorcaSpain3,640#8LesbosGreece1,630#9RhodesGreece1,398#10ChiosGreece842#11CephaloniaGreece781#12MenorcaSpain694#13CorfuGreece592#14IbizaSpain577#15DjerbaTunisia523#16LemnosGreece476#17SamosGreece476#18NaxosGreece428#19ZakynthosGreece406#20CresCroatia405 Discover the Most Grizzly Bear Infested Island on Earth Discover the World’s Largest Island in a Lake on an Island in a Lake on an Island 7 Islands With the Most Shark Attacks Share this post on: How to Add Us to Google News Sending You to Google News in 3 About the Author Niccoy Walker Niccoy is a professional writer for A-Z Animals, and her primary focus is on birds, travel, and interesting facts of all kinds. Niccoy has been writing and researching about travel, nature, wildlife, and business for several years and holds a business degree from Metropolitan State University in Denver. A resident of Florida, Niccoy enjoys hiking, cooking, reading, and spending time at the beach. Thank you for reading! Have some feedback for us? Contact the AZ Animals editorial team Name Please provide your name. Email Please provide a valid email address. Message * Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback! We appreciate your help in improving our content. Our editorial team will review your suggestions and make any necessary updates. There was an error submitting your feedback. Please try again. Related Articles You May Find Interesting Jellyfish Giants: Discover the Largest Species on the Planet The oceans of the world are made up of countless fascinating creatures, many of which have yet to be discovered.… Discover the Ocean’s Most Ingenious Home Builders Humans are some of the greatest builders on the planet, but we’re not the only ones. Beneath the ocean, some… The Largest Great White Shark Ever Recorded Is Still Alive Tales of massive sharks have been around since the time of the first seafaring people. While some of the accounts… Discover the Largest Saltwater Fish in the World The exact number of fish species is a debated topic. Sometimes you see 20,000 quoted, but there could be thousands… The Largest Predators Found in Every U.S. State Every U.S. state has a top predator—a species that dominates its ecosystem and keeps nature in check. We identified the… The Largest Rats in the World, From Giant Cloud Rats to Bamboo Rats Rats are often seen as little more than small pests scurrying through city streets, but this common image misrepresents the… These Are the Largest, Most Powerful Wolves on Earth Wolves are wild canids primarily found in North America, Europe, and Asia. They live in diverse habitats, including forests, mountains,… Where Animals Roam Free: Discover the Largest Natural Habitat Zoo in the World A zoo in Denmark is breaking all the rules. The Aalborg Zoo publicly announced it is accepting donations of small… The Predator Killing 1.5 Billion Animals a Year, and the Island Fighting Back The Dudley Peninsula region of Australia’s Kangaroo Island is undertaking perhaps the most ambitious conservation project in existence. Officials are… 20 Moments in Nature That Took Our Breath Away Supersized Bats: Nature’s Largest Winged Mammals Researchers recently investigated hammer-headed bat populations in southern Cameroon. The mixed-methods investigation was conducted in mature rainforest, where these massive,… The Most Colorful Birds You Can Spot in the Galapagos Islands Out in the Pacific Ocean, 620 miles off the coast of Ecuador, lies a chain of volcanic islands that harbor… Almost completely enclosed by land, yet still connected to the Atlantic Ocean, the Mediterranean Sea is a large body of water surrounded by Southern Europe, North Africa, and West Asia. There are more than 3,300 islands in the Mediterranean, many of which are small. Some are of volcanic origin. Check out this list of the top 20 largest islands in the Mediterranean Sea and learn about their countries and square miles. CresCres is a Croatian island that features several small villages.©Ilija Ascic/Shutterstock.comThe island of Cres is the 20th-largest island in the Mediterranean Sea. It resides in Croatia and is one of the northern islands in the Kvarner Gulf. Cres is 405 square kilometers and features several small villages. Cres is a Croatian island that features several small villages. ©Ilija Ascic/Shutterstock.com The island of Cres is the 20th-largest island in the Mediterranean Sea. It resides in Croatia and is one of the northern islands in the Kvarner Gulf. Cres is 405 square kilometers and features several small villages. ZakynthosThe Greek island of Zakynthos is a popular tourist destination.©smoxx/Shutterstock.comZakynthos is 156 square miles and features a coastline of 76 miles. It is part of Greece and sits in the Ionian Sea, an elongated bay of the Mediterranean. This island is popular among tourists for its beautiful beaches and lush landscape. The Greek island of Zakynthos is a popular tourist destination. ©smoxx/Shutterstock.com Zakynthos is 156 square miles and features a coastline of 76 miles. It is part of Greece and sits in the Ionian Sea, an elongated bay of the Mediterranean. This island is popular among tourists for its beautiful beaches and lush landscape. NaxosNaxos is known for its unique granular rocks.©Sven Hansche/Shutterstock.comThis Greek island is the largest of the Cyclades, an island group in the Aegean Sea. Naxos features an area of 170 square miles (430 square kilometers) and is famous for its abundant emery, a granular rock used to make abrasive powder. Naxos is known for its unique granular rocks. ©Sven Hansche/Shutterstock.com This Greek island is the largest of the Cyclades, an island group in the Aegean Sea. Naxos features an area of 170 square miles (430 square kilometers) and is famous for its abundant emery, a granular rock used to make abrasive powder. SamosSamos is famous for its vineyards and wine production.©Georgios Tsichlis/Shutterstock.comThe island of Samos is a Greek island in the Eastern Aegean Sea, an elongated embayment of the Mediterranean. Samos was once rich and powerful and known for its vineyards and wine production. Samos is famous for its vineyards and wine production. ©Georgios Tsichlis/Shutterstock.com The island of Samos is a Greek island in the Eastern Aegean Sea, an elongated embayment of the Mediterranean. Samos was once rich and powerful and known for its vineyards and wine production. LemnosThe island of Lemnos resides in the North Aegean region.©Georgios Tsichlis/Shutterstock.comLemnos, or Limnos, is a Greek island part of the North Aegean region and is the 18th largest island in Greece, with 184 square miles (477 square kilometers). This island is rich in unique cheeses, fruits, and vegetables. The island of Lemnos resides in the North Aegean region. ©Georgios Tsichlis/Shutterstock.com Lemnos, or Limnos, is a Greek island part of the North Aegean region and is the 18th largest island in Greece, with 184 square miles (477 square kilometers). This island is rich in unique cheeses, fruits, and vegetables. DjerbaLocated in North Africa, Djerba is 198 square miles.©BTWImages/Shutterstock.comDjerba is a Tunisian island and the largest in North Africa, measuring 198 square miles (514 square kilometers). Due to its rich ancient history, the island of Djerba was designated a World Heritage Site in 2023. Located in North Africa, Djerba is 198 square miles. ©BTWImages/Shutterstock.com Djerba is a Tunisian island and the largest in North Africa, measuring 198 square miles (514 square kilometers). Due to its rich ancient history, the island of Djerba was designated a World Heritage Site in 2023. IbizaIbiza is known for its nightlife and club scene.©iStock.com/amoklvThe Spanish island of Ibiza is off the coast of the Iberian Peninsula and is the third-largest of the Balearic Islands, an archipelago in the Western Mediterranean. Ibiza is famous for its nightlife and electronic dance club scene. Ibiza is known for its nightlife and club scene. ©iStock.com/amoklv The Spanish island of Ibiza is off the coast of the Iberian Peninsula and is the third-largest of the Balearic Islands, an archipelago in the Western Mediterranean. Ibiza is famous for its nightlife and electronic dance club scene. CorfuCorfu has a rich history.©Balate Dorin/iStock via Getty ImagesThe Greek island of Corfu is in the Ionian Sea and its several islands make up the northwestern frontier of Greece. This island has a rich history beginning in Greek mythology with many stories of battles and conquests. Corfu has a rich history. ©Balate Dorin/iStock via Getty Images The Greek island of Corfu is in the Ionian Sea and its several islands make up the northwestern frontier of Greece. This island has a rich history beginning in Greek mythology with many stories of battles and conquests. MenorcaThe island of Menorca has one of the largest natural ports in the world.©Serenity-H/Shutterstock.comMenorca belongs to Spain and is one of the Balearic Islands in the Mediterranean. This island is famous for its large natural port in Mahon and for its indication of very early human activity. The island of Menorca has one of the largest natural ports in the world. ©Serenity-H/Shutterstock.com Menorca belongs to Spain and is one of the Balearic Islands in the Mediterranean. This island is famous for its large natural port in Mahon and for its indication of very early human activity. CephaloniaGorgeous Cephalonia is a lush Greek island and part of the Ionian Islands.©Izabela23/Shutterstock.comCephalonia, also known as Kefalonia, is a Greek island and the largest of the Ionian Islands. It is also the sixth-largest island in Greece, featuring a total land area of 303 square miles. The island has rich biodiversity and lies in an active earthquake zone. Gorgeous Cephalonia is a lush Greek island and part of the Ionian Islands. ©Izabela23/Shutterstock.com Cephalonia, also known as Kefalonia, is a Greek island and the largest of the Ionian Islands. It is also the sixth-largest island in Greece, featuring a total land area of 303 square miles. The island has rich biodiversity and lies in an active earthquake zone. ChiosThe island of Chios is known for its medieval villages.©Georgios Tsichlis/Shutterstock.comAs the tenth-largest island in the Mediterranean Sea, Chios is 325 square miles (842 square kilometers). It is also the fifth-largest Greek island and sits in the Northern Aegean Sea. The island of Chios is famous for its tourist attractions, such as its medieval villages and UNESCO World Heritage Sites. The island of Chios is known for its medieval villages. ©Georgios Tsichlis/Shutterstock.com As the tenth-largest island in the Mediterranean Sea, Chios is 325 square miles (842 square kilometers). It is also the fifth-largest Greek island and sits in the Northern Aegean Sea. The island of Chios is famous for its tourist attractions, such as its medieval villages and UNESCO World Heritage Sites. RhodesThe island of Rhodes was once home to one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World.©iStock.com/Vladislav ZolotovRhodes is the largest of the Dodecanese Islands of Greece, a group of islands in the Southeastern Aegean Sea and Eastern Mediterranean. The island was once home to one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World, a statue of a Greek Titan god. The island of Rhodes was once home to one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World. ©iStock.com/Vladislav Zolotov Rhodes is the largest of the Dodecanese Islands of Greece, a group of islands in the Southeastern Aegean Sea and Eastern Mediterranean. The island was once home to one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World, a statue of a Greek Titan god. LesbosThe island of Lesbos was home to Sappho, the ancient Greek poet.©leoks/Shutterstock.comLesbos, or Lesvos, is a Greek island in the Northeastern Aegean Sea. It is 631 square miles (1,633 square kilometers) and contains around 250 miles of coastline. Lesbos is often called the “Island of Poets,” as it was home to the ancient Greek poet Sappho. This island is the third largest in Greece and the eighth largest in the Mediterranean. The island of Lesbos was home to Sappho, the ancient Greek poet. ©leoks/Shutterstock.com Lesbos, or Lesvos, is a Greek island in the Northeastern Aegean Sea. It is 631 square miles (1,633 square kilometers) and contains around 250 miles of coastline. Lesbos is often called the “Island of Poets,” as it was home to the ancient Greek poet Sappho. This island is the third largest in Greece and the eighth largest in the Mediterranean. MallorcaThe Spanish island of Mallorca is a popular holiday destination.©iStock.com/Balate DorinMallorca is the largest of the Balearic Islands, an archipelago in the Western Mediterranean. This island belongs to Spain and encompasses 1,405 square miles (3,640 square kilometers), making it the seventh largest in the Mediterranean Sea. Mallorca is a popular holiday destination for its beautiful scenery and lively culture. The Spanish island of Mallorca is a popular holiday destination. ©iStock.com/Balate Dorin Mallorca is the largest of the Balearic Islands, an archipelago in the Western Mediterranean. This island belongs to Spain and encompasses 1,405 square miles (3,640 square kilometers), making it the seventh largest in the Mediterranean Sea. Mallorca is a popular holiday destination for its beautiful scenery and lively culture. EuboeaEuboea is a long and narrow Greek island.©Georgios Tsichlis/Shutterstock.comAs the second-largest Greek Island, Euboea is 1,422 square miles (3,684 square kilometers). It is long and narrow, about 110 miles long and 3.7 miles wide. Along with beaches and island towns, Euboea contains a mountain range that runs northwest to southeast. Euboea is a long and narrow Greek island. ©Georgios Tsichlis/Shutterstock.com As the second-largest Greek Island, Euboea is 1,422 square miles (3,684 square kilometers). It is long and narrow, about 110 miles long and 3.7 miles wide. Along with beaches and island towns, Euboea contains a mountain range that runs northwest to southeast. CreteCrete is the largest Greek island and the fifth largest in the Mediterranean.©leoks/Shutterstock.comThe island of Crete is the largest of the Greek Islands and the fifth-largest in the Mediterranean. It resides nearly 100 miles south of the mainland and encompasses 3,260 square miles (8,450 square kilometers). Crete has a long history and was one of Europe’s first advanced civilizations. Crete is the largest Greek island and the fifth largest in the Mediterranean. ©leoks/Shutterstock.com The island of Crete is the largest of the Greek Islands and the fifth-largest in the Mediterranean. It resides nearly 100 miles south of the mainland and encompasses 3,260 square miles (8,450 square kilometers). Crete has a long history and was one of Europe’s first advanced civilizations. CorsicaThe French island of Corsica is one of the least-populated regions of France.©Zoltan Szabo Photography/Shutterstock.comCorsica is one of the 18 regions of France and the fourth-largest island in the Mediterranean Sea. This island has a total area of 3,368 square miles (8,722 square kilometers) and a single chain of mountains make up a large portion of the island. The French island of Corsica is one of the least-populated regions of France. ©Zoltan Szabo Photography/Shutterstock.com Corsica is one of the 18 regions of France and the fourth-largest island in the Mediterranean Sea. This island has a total area of 3,368 square miles (8,722 square kilometers) and a single chain of mountains make up a large portion of the island. CyprusThe highest point in Cyprus is Mount Olympus.©Serenity-H/Shutterstock.comCyprus is an island country located south of the Anatolian Peninsula. While this country is technically in West Asia, it is considered a European country. As the third-largest island in the Mediterranean Sea, Cyprus has a total area of 3,572 square miles (9,251 square kilometers). Its highest point is Mount Olympus. The highest point in Cyprus is Mount Olympus. ©Serenity-H/Shutterstock.com Cyprus is an island country located south of the Anatolian Peninsula. While this country is technically in West Asia, it is considered a European country. As the third-largest island in the Mediterranean Sea, Cyprus has a total area of 3,572 square miles (9,251 square kilometers). Its highest point is Mount Olympus. SardiniaThe Italian island of Sardinia is 9,300 square miles.©Vladimir Sazonov/Shutterstock.comSardinia is a region of Italy and the second-largest island in the Mediterranean. It resides west of the Italian Peninsula and north of Tunisia. This large island is 9,300 square miles (24,090 square kilometers) and contains mountains, plains, woods, and rocky coasts. The Italian island of Sardinia is 9,300 square miles. ©Vladimir Sazonov/Shutterstock.com Sardinia is a region of Italy and the second-largest island in the Mediterranean. It resides west of the Italian Peninsula and north of Tunisia. This large island is 9,300 square miles (24,090 square kilometers) and contains mountains, plains, woods, and rocky coasts. SicilySicily is the largest island in the Mediterranean and contains Europe’s largest active volcano.©Simoncountry/Shutterstock.comWith a total area of 9,927 square miles (25,711 square kilometers), Sicily is the largest island in the Mediterranean Sea. It is a region of Italy and contains 4.8 million people. It sits in the central region of the sea and contains Mount Etna, the tallest active volcano in Europe. Humans have inhabited the island of Sicily since 14,000 BC and had dozens of Greek colonies by 750 BC. Sicily is the largest island in the Mediterranean and contains Europe’s largest active volcano. ©Simoncountry/Shutterstock.com With a total area of 9,927 square miles (25,711 square kilometers), Sicily is the largest island in the Mediterranean Sea. It is a region of Italy and contains 4.8 million people. It sits in the central region of the sea and contains Mount Etna, the tallest active volcano in Europe. Humans have inhabited the island of Sicily since 14,000 BC and had dozens of Greek colonies by 750 BC. A Summary of the 20 Largest Islands in the Mediterranean Sea Discover the Most Grizzly Bear Infested Island on Earth Discover the World’s Largest Island in a Lake on an Island in a Lake on an Island 7 Islands With the Most Shark Attacks Discover the Most Grizzly Bear Infested Island on Earth Discover the World’s Largest Island in a Lake on an Island in a Lake on an Island 7 Islands With the Most Shark Attacks Discover the Most Grizzly Bear Infested Island on Earth Discover the Most Grizzly Bear Infested Island on Earth Discover the Most Grizzly Bear Infested Island on Earth Discover the Most Grizzly Bear Infested Island on Earth Discover the Most Grizzly Bear Infested Island on Earth Discover the World’s Largest Island in a Lake on an Island in a Lake on an Island Discover the World’s Largest Island in a Lake on an Island in a Lake on an Island Discover the World’s Largest Island in a Lake on an Island in a Lake on an Island Discover the World’s Largest Island in a Lake on an Island in a Lake on an Island Discover the World’s Largest Island in a Lake on an Island in a Lake on an Island 7 Islands With the Most Shark Attacks 7 Islands With the Most Shark Attacks 7 Islands With the Most Shark Attacks 7 Islands With the Most Shark Attacks 7 Islands With the Most Shark Attacks Share this post on: How to Add Us to Google News Sending You to Google News in 3 How to Add Us to Google News Sending You to Google News in 3 How to Add Us to Google News Sending You to Google News in 3 How to Add Us to Google News How to Add Us to Google News Sending You to Google News in 3 About the Author Niccoy Walker Niccoy is a professional writer for A-Z Animals, and her primary focus is on birds, travel, and interesting facts of all kinds. Niccoy has been writing and researching about travel, nature, wildlife, and business for several years and holds a business degree from Metropolitan State University in Denver. A resident of Florida, Niccoy enjoys hiking, cooking, reading, and spending time at the beach. About the Author Niccoy Walker Niccoy is a professional writer for A-Z Animals, and her primary focus is on birds, travel, and interesting facts of all kinds. Niccoy has been writing and researching about travel, nature, wildlife, and business for several years and holds a business degree from Metropolitan State University in Denver. A resident of Florida, Niccoy enjoys hiking, cooking, reading, and spending time at the beach. About the Author Niccoy Walker Niccoy is a professional writer for A-Z Animals, and her primary focus is on birds, travel, and interesting facts of all kinds. Niccoy has been writing and researching about travel, nature, wildlife, and business for several years and holds a business degree from Metropolitan State University in Denver. A resident of Florida, Niccoy enjoys hiking, cooking, reading, and spending time at the beach. Thank you for reading! Have some feedback for us? Contact the AZ Animals editorial team Name Please provide your name. Email Please provide a valid email address. Message * Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback! We appreciate your help in improving our content. Our editorial team will review your suggestions and make any necessary updates. There was an error submitting your feedback. Please try again. Contact the AZ Animals editorial team Contact the AZ Animals editorial team Name Please provide your name. Email Please provide a valid email address. Message * Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback! We appreciate your help in improving our content. Our editorial team will review your suggestions and make any necessary updates. There was an error submitting your feedback. Please try again. Name Please provide your name. Email Please provide a valid email address. Message * Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback! We appreciate your help in improving our content. Our editorial team will review your suggestions and make any necessary updates. There was an error submitting your feedback. Please try again. Name Please provide your name. Email Please provide a valid email address. Name Please provide your name. Please provide your name. Email Please provide a valid email address. Please provide a valid email address. Thank you for your feedback! We appreciate your help in improving our content. Our editorial team will review your suggestions and make any necessary updates. Thank you for your feedback! We appreciate your help in improving our content. Our editorial team will review your suggestions and make any necessary updates. Thank you for your feedback! We appreciate your help in improving our content. Our editorial team will review your suggestions and make any necessary updates. There was an error submitting your feedback. Please try again. There was an error submitting your feedback. Please try again. Related Articles You May Find Interesting Jellyfish Giants: Discover the Largest Species on the Planet The oceans of the world are made up of countless fascinating creatures, many of which have yet to be discovered.… Discover the Ocean’s Most Ingenious Home Builders Humans are some of the greatest builders on the planet, but we’re not the only ones. Beneath the ocean, some… The Largest Great White Shark Ever Recorded Is Still Alive Tales of massive sharks have been around since the time of the first seafaring people. While some of the accounts… Discover the Largest Saltwater Fish in the World The exact number of fish species is a debated topic. Sometimes you see 20,000 quoted, but there could be thousands… The Largest Predators Found in Every U.S. State Every U.S. state has a top predator—a species that dominates its ecosystem and keeps nature in check. We identified the… The Largest Rats in the World, From Giant Cloud Rats to Bamboo Rats Rats are often seen as little more than small pests scurrying through city streets, but this common image misrepresents the… These Are the Largest, Most Powerful Wolves on Earth Wolves are wild canids primarily found in North America, Europe, and Asia. They live in diverse habitats, including forests, mountains,… Where Animals Roam Free: Discover the Largest Natural Habitat Zoo in the World A zoo in Denmark is breaking all the rules. The Aalborg Zoo publicly announced it is accepting donations of small… The Predator Killing 1.5 Billion Animals a Year, and the Island Fighting Back The Dudley Peninsula region of Australia’s Kangaroo Island is undertaking perhaps the most ambitious conservation project in existence. Officials are… 20 Moments in Nature That Took Our Breath Away Supersized Bats: Nature’s Largest Winged Mammals Researchers recently investigated hammer-headed bat populations in southern Cameroon. The mixed-methods investigation was conducted in mature rainforest, where these massive,… The Most Colorful Birds You Can Spot in the Galapagos Islands Out in the Pacific Ocean, 620 miles off the coast of Ecuador, lies a chain of volcanic islands that harbor… Related Articles You May Find Interesting Jellyfish Giants: Discover the Largest Species on the Planet The oceans of the world are made up of countless fascinating creatures, many of which have yet to be discovered.… Discover the Ocean’s Most Ingenious Home Builders Humans are some of the greatest builders on the planet, but we’re not the only ones. Beneath the ocean, some… The Largest Great White Shark Ever Recorded Is Still Alive Tales of massive sharks have been around since the time of the first seafaring people. While some of the accounts… Discover the Largest Saltwater Fish in the World The exact number of fish species is a debated topic. Sometimes you see 20,000 quoted, but there could be thousands… The Largest Predators Found in Every U.S. State Every U.S. state has a top predator—a species that dominates its ecosystem and keeps nature in check. We identified the… The Largest Rats in the World, From Giant Cloud Rats to Bamboo Rats Rats are often seen as little more than small pests scurrying through city streets, but this common image misrepresents the… These Are the Largest, Most Powerful Wolves on Earth Wolves are wild canids primarily found in North America, Europe, and Asia. They live in diverse habitats, including forests, mountains,… Where Animals Roam Free: Discover the Largest Natural Habitat Zoo in the World A zoo in Denmark is breaking all the rules. The Aalborg Zoo publicly announced it is accepting donations of small… The Predator Killing 1.5 Billion Animals a Year, and the Island Fighting Back The Dudley Peninsula region of Australia’s Kangaroo Island is undertaking perhaps the most ambitious conservation project in existence. Officials are… 20 Moments in Nature That Took Our Breath Away Supersized Bats: Nature’s Largest Winged Mammals Researchers recently investigated hammer-headed bat populations in southern Cameroon. The mixed-methods investigation was conducted in mature rainforest, where these massive,… The Most Colorful Birds You Can Spot in the Galapagos Islands Out in the Pacific Ocean, 620 miles off the coast of Ecuador, lies a chain of volcanic islands that harbor… Jellyfish Giants: Discover the Largest Species on the Planet The oceans of the world are made up of countless fascinating creatures, many of which have yet to be discovered.… Jellyfish Giants: Discover the Largest Species on the Planet The oceans of the world are made up of countless fascinating creatures, many of which have yet to be discovered.… Discover the Ocean’s Most Ingenious Home Builders Humans are some of the greatest builders on the planet, but we’re not the only ones. Beneath the ocean, some… Discover the Ocean’s Most Ingenious Home Builders Humans are some of the greatest builders on the planet, but we’re not the only ones. Beneath the ocean, some… The Largest Great White Shark Ever Recorded Is Still Alive Tales of massive sharks have been around since the time of the first seafaring people. While some of the accounts… The Largest Great White Shark Ever Recorded Is Still Alive Tales of massive sharks have been around since the time of the first seafaring people. While some of the accounts… Discover the Largest Saltwater Fish in the World The exact number of fish species is a debated topic. Sometimes you see 20,000 quoted, but there could be thousands… Discover the Largest Saltwater Fish in the World The exact number of fish species is a debated topic. Sometimes you see 20,000 quoted, but there could be thousands… The Largest Predators Found in Every U.S. State Every U.S. state has a top predator—a species that dominates its ecosystem and keeps nature in check. We identified the… The Largest Predators Found in Every U.S. State Every U.S. state has a top predator—a species that dominates its ecosystem and keeps nature in check. We identified the… The Largest Rats in the World, From Giant Cloud Rats to Bamboo Rats Rats are often seen as little more than small pests scurrying through city streets, but this common image misrepresents the… The Largest Rats in the World, From Giant Cloud Rats to Bamboo Rats Rats are often seen as little more than small pests scurrying through city streets, but this common image misrepresents the… These Are the Largest, Most Powerful Wolves on Earth Wolves are wild canids primarily found in North America, Europe, and Asia. They live in diverse habitats, including forests, mountains,… These Are the Largest, Most Powerful Wolves on Earth Wolves are wild canids primarily found in North America, Europe, and Asia. They live in diverse habitats, including forests, mountains,… Where Animals Roam Free: Discover the Largest Natural Habitat Zoo in the World A zoo in Denmark is breaking all the rules. The Aalborg Zoo publicly announced it is accepting donations of small… Where Animals Roam Free: Discover the Largest Natural Habitat Zoo in the World A zoo in Denmark is breaking all the rules. The Aalborg Zoo publicly announced it is accepting donations of small… The Predator Killing 1.5 Billion Animals a Year, and the Island Fighting Back The Dudley Peninsula region of Australia’s Kangaroo Island is undertaking perhaps the most ambitious conservation project in existence. Officials are… The Predator Killing 1.5 Billion Animals a Year, and the Island Fighting Back The Dudley Peninsula region of Australia’s Kangaroo Island is undertaking perhaps the most ambitious conservation project in existence. Officials are… 20 Moments in Nature That Took Our Breath Away 20 Moments in Nature That Took Our Breath Away Supersized Bats: Nature’s Largest Winged Mammals Researchers recently investigated hammer-headed bat populations in southern Cameroon. The mixed-methods investigation was conducted in mature rainforest, where these massive,… Supersized Bats: Nature’s Largest Winged Mammals Researchers recently investigated hammer-headed bat populations in southern Cameroon. The mixed-methods investigation was conducted in mature rainforest, where these massive,… The Most Colorful Birds You Can Spot in the Galapagos Islands Out in the Pacific Ocean, 620 miles off the coast of Ecuador, lies a chain of volcanic islands that harbor… The Most Colorful Birds You Can Spot in the Galapagos Islands Out in the Pacific Ocean, 620 miles off the coast of Ecuador, lies a chain of volcanic islands that harbor…