Source: https://cdn.ymaws.com/www.ips-planetarium.org/resource/resmgr/planetarian/201603planetarian.pdf
Words: 58932

================================================================================

Online PDF: ISSN 23333-9063 Vol. 45, No. 1 March 2016 Journal of the International Planetarium Society One Earth Message: Continuing the Legacy Page 14 Executive Editor Sharon Shanks 484 Canterbury Ln Boardman, Ohio 44512 USA March 2016 +1 330-783-9341 sharon.shanks@gmail.com Webmaster Vol. 45 No. 1 Alan Gould Lawrence Hall of Science Planetarium University of California Articles Berkeley CA 94720-5200 USA adgould@comcast.net 7 Mentoring: The gift of ourselves that we give to others Advertising Coordinator Joanne Young Dale Smith 8 IPS welcomes two new affiliate representatives (See Publications Committee on page 3) Membership 10 Guest Editorial: How to grow an audience for your Individual: $65 one year; $100 two years planetarium Mike Murray Institutional: $250 first year; $125 annual renewal 12 Solve, evolve, involve…REVOLVE! The IPS 2016 Team Library Subscriptions: $50 one year; $90 two years All amounts in US currency 14 Messages from the Pale Blue Dot Sharon Shanks Direct membership requests and changes of 16 Before the golden record, there were Pioneer address to the Treasurer/Membership Chairman Printed Back Issues of Planetarian golden plaques Sharon Shanks IPS Back Publications Repository 18 The Voyager Golden Record: Humanity Says maintained by the Treasurer/Membership Chair “Hello” to the Cosmos Renae Kerrigan (See contact information on next page) Final Deadlines March: January 21 22 Special Section: Immerse Yourself June: April 21 24 How Can Simulations Promote Learing in Science? An September: July 21 December: October 21 Exploratory Study to Examine Two Simulation Tools Associate Editors Pamela A. Maher, P.G. Schrader, Book Reviews April S. Whitt James Ormord, Andrew Kerr Calendar Loris Ramponi Cartoons Alexandre Cherman, Chuck Rau 30 Planetariums in the era of VR Julieta Aguilera Data to Dome Mark SubbaRoa 34 What is 3D Immersive Sound? Charles Morrow Classroom Education Jack Northrup Education Committee Jeanne Bishop Fulldome Matters Carolyn Collins Petersen 40 Fulldome in the last frontier International Lars Petersen Last Light April S. Whitt Travis Rector, Jonathan VanBallenberghe Mobile News Susan Reynolds Button 44 The first true 8K planetarium: Houston reaches the stars Presenting Live Karrie Berglund Sound Advice Jeff Bowen Carolyn Sumners 48 Planetariums in India: Domes by the Numbers Jayanta Sthanapati Columns 58 How We Do It: A tactile experience at Rock Creek Park 56 Bard Spiral Chuck Rau Michael Zwelling 94 Book Reviews April S. Whitt 98 Calendar of Events Loris Ramponi 60 Under One Dome: Bangkok Planetarium 62 Data to Dome Mark SubbaRao 80 Celebrating the right to dark skies Eduardo Hernandez 66 Fulldome Matters Carolyn Collins Petersen 96 Tributes: John Burgess 86 From the Classdome Jack L. Northrup 4 In Front of the Console Sharon Shanks 70 International News Lars Petersen 100 Last Light April S. Whitt 82 LIP Service Kerrie Berglund Index of Advertisers 88 Mobile News Susan Reynolds Button Astro-Tec .83 21 Partycles Alex Cherman 6 President’s Message Joanne Young Audio Visual Imagineering .43 91 Seeking What Works Jeanne Bishop Brno IPS Fulldome Festival .45 96 Waxing New Sharon Shanks California Academy of Sciences . 47 ChromaCove .33 Clark Planetarium/Hansen Dome .9 Digitalis Education Solutions, Inc. .57 Evans & Sutherland .29, 97, Outside back cover On the Cover: Four spacecraft have already ap- GeoGraphics Imaging .20 proached the limits of our solars system, and the fifth, the New Horizon, is in their wake. GOTO Inc. .Inside front cover Planetarians have a chance to send humani- Konica Minolta Planetarium Co. Lt .79 ty’s digital message beyond our neighborhood Magna-Tech Electronic Company . 81 by taking part in the One Earth Message Pro- Metaspace .93 gram. See more starting on page 14. All imag- Mirage3d . 67, 85 es NASA/JPL; background line art ©Can Stock NSC Creative .77 Photo Inc. /baoyan. R.S.A. Cosmos .Inside back cover Sciss .5 Sky-Skan, Inc .49-52 Softmachine .55, 73, 87 Spitz, Inc. . 35, 37, 39 Spitz Creative Media . 17, 65, 99 You Can Do Astronomy .80 Zeiss, Inc . 61 www.facebook.com/InternationalPlanetariumSociety International Planetarium Society home page: www.ips-planetarium.org Planetarian home page: www.ips-planetarium.org/?page=plntrn March 2016 Planetarian 1 Aff iliate Representatives Association of Brazilian British Association Italian Association of Russian Planetariums Off icers Planetariums-ABP of Planetaria-BAP Planetaria-IAP Association-RPA Antonio Augusto Rabello Mark Watson Loris Ramponi Zinaida P. Sitkova Foundation CEU Universe Study Techniquest Glyndŵr, National Archive of Planetaria Nizhny Novgorod President Center Glyndŵr University Campus c/o Centro Studi e Ricerche Planetarium Joanne Young Rua Emílio Dalla Déa Filho, s/n. Mold Road Serafino Zani Revolutsionnja Street 20 Audio Visual Imagineering Portão 4 Wrexham, LL11 2AW via Bosca 24, C.P. 104 603002 Nizhny Novgorod, Russia 6565 Hazeltine National Campos Elíseos Brotas, SP, Brazil United Kingdom I 25066 Lumezzane (Brescia) Italy +7 831 246-78-80 Drive, Suite 2 + 55 14 3653-4466 +44 (0)1978 293400 +39 30 872 164 +7 831 246-77-89 fax Orlando, Florida 32822 USA + 55 11 3812-2112 M.Watson.BAP@gmail.com +39 30 872 545 fax zsitkova@gmail.com +1 407-859-8166 www.fundacaceo.org.br www.planetarium.org.uk megrez58@gmail.com www.apr.planetariums.ru joanne@av-imagineering.com riker44@gmail.com osservatorio@serafinozani.it www.planetarios.org.br Canadian Association of Sci- www.planetari.org Society of the German- Past President www.planetariodorio.com.br ence Centres-CASC Speaking Planetariums-GDP Thomas W. Kraupe Ian C. McLennan Japan Planetarium Association- Björn Voss Planetarium Hamburg Association of Dutch-Speaking #404-1275 Haro Street JPA LWL-Museum für Naturkunde Otto-Wels-Str.1 Planetariums-PLANed Vancouver, British Columbia Kaoru Kimura Westphalian State Museum D-22303 Hamburg Jaap Vreeling V6E 1G1 Canada Japan Science Foundation of Natural History Deutschland Nova informatie centrum +1 604-681-4790 phone + fax Kitanomaru Park, Chiyoda-ku Sentruper Str. 285 +49 0 (40) 428 86 52-50 Science Park 904 ian@ianmclennan.com Tokyo, 102-0091 Japan 48161 Münster GERMANY +49 0 (40) 428 86 52-99 fax 1098 XH Amsterdam ian.mclennan@gmail.com kaoru@jsf.or.jp +49-251-591-6026 +49 0 (40) 4279 24-850 e-fax +31 0 20 525 7480 www.ianmclennan.com www.shin-pla.info +49-251-591-6098 fax +49 0 (40) 172-40 86 133 cell +31 0 20 525 7484 fax bjoern.voss@lwl.org thomas.kraupe@planetarium-hamburg.de J.A.Vreeling@uva.nl Chinese Planetarium Middle Atlantic Planetarium www.gdp-planetarium.org www.astronomie.nl Society-CPS Society-MAPS President-Elect Jin Zhu Jerry Vinski Southeastern Planetarium Shawn Laatsch Association of French- Beijing Planetarium 110 E Union Street Association-SEPA Emera Astronomy Center Speaking Planetariums-APLF No. 138 Xizhimenwait Street Hillsborough, North John Hare 167 Rangeley Road Marc Moutin Beijing, 1000044 Carolina 27278 USA Ash Enterprises Orono, Maine 04469 USA Cité de l’espace P.R. China +1 919-241-4548 3602 23rd Avenue West shawn.laatsch@gmail.com Avenue Jean Gonord BP 25855 +86 10-5158-3311 jmvinski@gmail.com Bradenton, Florida 34205 USA 31506 Toulouse Cedex 5 +86 10-5158-3312 fax +1 941-746-3522 Executive Secretary +33 (0)5 62 71 56 03 jinzhu@bjp.org.cn Nordic Planetarium johnhare@earthlink.net Lee Ann Hennig +33 (0)5 62 71 56 29 fax Association-NPA www.sepadomes.org Planetarium, Thomas m.moutin@cite-espace.com European/Mediterranean Aase Roland Jacobsen Jefferson High School www.cite-espace.com Planetarium Association-EMP Steno Museum Planetarium Southwestern Association of for Science and Technology www.aplf-planetariums.org Manos Kitsonas C.F. Moellers Alle 2 Planetariums-SWAP 6560 Braddock Road Eugenides Planetarium University of Aarhus Rachel Thompson Alexandria, Virginia 22312 USA Association of Mexican 387 Syngrou Avenue DK-8000 Aarhus C Perot Museum of Nature +1 703-750-8380 Planetariums-AMP 17564 P. Faliro DENMARK and Science +1 703-750-5010 fax Ignacio Castro Pinal Athens, Greece +45 87 15 54 15 2201 North Field Street lahennig@verizon.net Ave. San Bernabé, 723, Casa 7 +30 210 946 9674 aase.jacobsen@si.au.dk Dallas, Texas 75202 USA San Jerónimo Lídice, C.P. 10200 +30 210 941 7372 fax +1 214-756-5830 Treasurer and Membership Chair México City, D.F. México mak@eugenfound.edu.gr Pacific Planetarium rachel.thompson@ Ann Bragg +52 (55) 5500 0562 Association-PPA perotmuseum.org Anderson Hancock Planetarium +52 (55) 5500 0583 fax Great Lakes Planetarium Benjamin Mendelsohn www.swapskies.org Marietta College icastrop@hotmail.com Association-GLPA West Valley Community College 215 Fifth Street Mike Smail 14000 Fruitvale Avenue Marietta, Ohio 45750 USA Association of Spanish Theaters Manager Saratoga, California +1 740-376-4589 Planetariums-ASP Adler Planetarium 95070-5698 USA ann.bragg@marietta.edu Javier Armentia 1300 S Lake Shore Drive +1 408-741-4018 Planetario de Pamplona Chicago, Illinois 60612 USA +1 408-741-4072 fax Payments of membership Sancho Ramirez, 2 +1 312-294-0365 Benjamin.Mendelsohn@wvm.edu fees and advertising invoices E-31008 Pamplona Navarra Spain msmail@adlerplanetarium.org sites.csn.edu/planetarium/PPA should be made to Ann Bragg +34 948 260 004 www.glpaweb.org +34 948 260 056 Rocky Mountain Planetarium Membership fees also can be paid on- +34 948 261 919 fax Great Plains Planetarium Association-RMPA line on the IPS website javarm@pamplonetario.org Association-GPPA Michele Wistisen www.planetarios.org Jack L. Northrup Casper Planetarium Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. 904 North Poplar Street Australasian Planetarium Planetarium Casper, Wyoming Society-APS 3720 Florence Boulevard 82601 USA Shane Hengst Omaha, Nebraska 68110 USA +1 307-577-0310 Outreach Manager, University jlnorthrup@fbx.com michele_wistisen@ of New South Wales Physics natronaschools.org UNSW Australia Sydney NSW 2052 Australia +61 (2) 9385 4053 +61 (2) 9385 6060 fax s.hengst@unsw.edu.au www.aps-planetarium.org 2 Planetarian March 2016 Standing Committees Awards Committee Conference Host-2018 Membership Committee IPS Permanent Mailing Address Manos Kitsonas Marc Moutin Ann Bragg, Treasurer Eugenides Planetarium Cité de l’espace Marietta College 387 Syngrou Avenue Avenue Jean Gonord BP 25855 215 Fifth Street International Planetarium Society 17564 P. Faliro 31506 Toulouse Cedex 5 Marietta, Ohio 45750 USA c/o Ann Bragg, Treasurer Athens, Greece +33 (0) 5 62 71 56 03 +1 740-376-4589 Marietta College +30 210 946 9674 +33 (0) 5 62 71 56 29 ann.bragg@marietta.edu 215 Fifth Street +30 210 941 7372 fax m.moutin@cite-espace.com Marietta, Ohio 45750 USA mak@eugenfound.edu.gr www.cite-espace.com Publications Committee www.aplf-planetariums.org Dale W. Smith, Chair IPS Web Site: Conference Committee BGSU Planetarium www.ips-planetarium.org Joanne Young Elections Committee 104 Overman Hall Audio Visual Imagineering Martin George, Chair Physics &Astronomy Department Please notify the Editor and Secretary of any changes 6565 Hazeltine National Launceston Planetarium Bowling Green State University on these two pages. Drive, Suite 2 Queen Victoria Museum Bowling Green, Ohio 43403 USA Orlando, Florida 32822 USA Wellington Street +1 419-372-8666 Contact the Treasurer/Membership Chair for +1 407-859-8166 Launceston Tasmania 7250 +1 419-372-9938 fax individual member address changes and general joanne@av-imagineering.com Australia dwsmith@bgsu.edu circulation and billing questions. Addresses +61 3 6323 3777 also may be changed online on the IPS Web Site. Conference Host-2016 +61 3 6323 3776 fax Robert Firmhofer, Monika Martin.George@qvmag.tas.gov.au Malinowska, Weronika Sliwa, Maciej Ligowski Finance Committee Copernicus Science Centre President, Past President, President Wybrzeże Kościuszkowskie 20, 00-390 Elect, Treasurer, Secretary Warsaw, Poland planetarium@kopernik.org.pl +48 22 596 4275 +48 22 596 4113 fax Ad Hoc Committees Armand Spitz International Relations Committee Presenting Live Under the Dome Planetarium Education Fund Martin George, Chair Committee Finance Committee Launceston Planetarium Mark Webb, Chair Queen Victoria Museum Grainger Sky Theater Immersive Audio Committee Wellington Street Adler Planetarium Charles Morrow Launceston, Tasmania 7250 1300 South Lake Shore Drive Chicago, 1961 Roaring Brook Road Australia Illinois 60605 USA Barton, Vermont 05822 USA +61 3 6323 3777 +1 312-322-0826 Phone: +1-212-989-2400 +61 3 6323 3776 fax mwebb@adlerplanetarium.org Fax: +1.206.222.2125 Martin.George@qvmag.tas.gov.au cm@cmorrow.com Science & Data Planetarium Design and Operations Visualization Task Force Education Committee Committee Mark SubbaRao Jeanne E. Bishop Ian McLennan Adler Planetarium Planetarium Director #404-1275 Haro Street 1300 South Lake Shore Drive Parkside Intermediate School Vancouver, British Columbia Chicago, Illinois 60605 USA 24525 Hilliard Road V6E 1G1 Canada +1 312-294-0348 Westlake, Ohio 44145 USA +1 604-681-4790 phone + fax msubbarao@adlerplanetarium.org +1 440-871-5293 ian@ianmclennan.com +1 440-835-5572 fax ian.mclennan@gmail.com Vision 2020 Initiative jeanneebishop@wowway.com www.ianmclennan.com Jon Elvert, Chair www.glpaweb.org Baton Rouge, Louisiana Mail address: Portable Planetarium Committee 70802 USA 3180 Oakwood Lane Susan Reynolds Button, Chair jelvert1@gmail.com Westlake, OH 44145 USA Quarks to Clusters 8793 Horseshoe Lane History Committee Chittenango, NY 13037 John Hare, IPS Historian +1 315-687-5371 Ash Enterprises sbuttonq2c@twcny.rr.com 3602 23rd Avenue West sbuttonq2c@gmail.com Bradenton, Florida 34205 USA +1 941-746-3522 johnhare@earthlink.net Planetarian (ISSN 0090-3213) is published quarterly by the International Planetarium Society. ©2016 Inter- Guidelines for contributors • Contributors agree that their sub- ed version has been received by national Planetarium Society, Inc., all rights reserved. • Planetarian welcomes submissions mission is their own original work members), contributors may post the Opinions expressed by authors are personal opinions of interest to the planetarium com- and has not appeared elsewhere in submission on a personal website, and are not necessarily the opinions of the Interna- munity. Preference is given to arti- print or electronically, nor is not be- blog, or a website of general inter- tional Planetarium Society, its officers, or agents. cles that closely relate to the phi- ing submitted simultaneously else- est as long as the following appears: losophy, management, technical where in print or electronically. If the Copyright 2013 (or appropriate year) Acceptance of advertisements, announcements, or aspects, educational aspects, or his- submission has appeared elsewhere International Planetarium Soci- other material does not imply endorsement by the tory of planetariums, and to ideas in print or electronically, permission ety; used with permission and pro- International Planetarium Society, its officers, or agents. that can readily be incorporated into to re-print must be obtained and vide a link to the IPS. If in doubt, con- planetarium shows. Authors are re- a copy of this permission emailed tact the editor with questions. The editor welcomes Letters to the Editor and items sponsible for obtaining all neces- to the Editor with the article. • The Guidelines for Contributors for consideration for publication.The editor reserves sary copyright clearances, especial- • Once accepted for publication, on the IPS website should be con- the right to edit any manuscript to suit this publica- ly for illustrations and photographs. the contributor also agrees that the sulted before submitting an article. tion’s needs. • Research articles dealing with copyright for original works not ap- • Potential advertisers are invit- educational aspects of the plane- pearing elsewhere is held by the In- ed to check the Advertising Guide- The online PDF version holds ISSN 2333-9063 tarium and other topics are high- ternational Planetarium Society. lines and Rate Sheet on the IPS website: ly desirable and will be refer- Once a submission has appeared in www.ips-lanetarium.g/?page=plntrn Planetarian is part of the EBSCO research database. eed if applicable and requested. Planetarian (but not before the print- March 2016 Planetarian 3 In Front of the Console Sharon Shanks 484 Canterbury Lane Boardman, Ohio 44512 USA +1 330-783-9341 sharon.shanks@gmail.com The importance of mentoring, taking part in One Earth Message Before you do anything else, turn to Inter- Carolyn Collins Petersen, in her Fulldome IPS website—the ones we receive when some- national News on page 70 and read the sto- Matters column (page 66), tackles the ticklish one clicks the “contact us” link in the upper ry about the 85th birthday celebration of question of education vs. entertainment in right corner of the page. Kuz’ma Matzukov, founder of the planetar- the dome. Spoiler alert: I agree with Carolyn One person I responded to was Bob ium at Kemerovo State University in Kerero- on this point. There is room for both. Derkach, composer and sound designer who vo, Russia. Susan Reynolds Button shares some great had worked as the audio producer/composer What a sweet, gentle face Kuz’ma has. I news from Great Britain and the British As- for the Queen Elizabeth Planetarium/Edmon- don’t know why, but I was smitten by him sociation of Planetaria; go to page 88 to learn ton Space Sciences Center, among other inter- as soon as I saw his picture. Alas, there are too more. esting places and projects. He was interested in many miles and too many years between us. President Joanne Young mentioned in her making his music and sound available to IPS OK, now you can get back to the rest of this December 2015 President’s Message that she members. issue, which again is a fat one. was impressed with mentoring, and especially I replied, and getting his information shared You might have noticed by now that I the Mentor Awards given by the Great Lakes on the IPS website is in the works. made some design changes to the layout. I Planetarium Association. He also mentioned that he currently is am a fan of white space as a way of making Following up on that, for this issue she has working on an interstellar project called One things easier to read, so I am trying to incorpo- collected warm and heartening words from Earth Message, which you can read about rate more into the layout. If you like it, let me both mentor and mentees starting on page starting on page 14. (Bob is on the board of ad- know. If you do not like it, then let me know 7. It is rare for us to find out if and/or how visers and composed the music for the promo- that, too, especially if you think some of the we have influenced young lives. We have a tional video.) type is too small. chance to share vicariously with Dale Smith I had not heard about the One Earth Mes- There are so many good articles in this is- as we hear how he influenced two of his for- sage project and it sounded intriguing, so Bob sue that it is difficult for me to highlight them mer students. put me in contact with Jon Lomberg, and I all here. connected him with Joanne, and a story was In addition to some IPS matters, like the A chance meeting and a project born. IPS is supporting the project. call for bids to host the 2020 conference, the I do not have to explain to anyone read- Isn’t it nice when everything works out? call for candidates for office, and another look ing this that it is very difficult to keep up with at the upcoming IPS2016 in Warsaw, Poland, the news. Not only are new discoveries being Looking for Facebook help there are articles that look at immersiveness made (Gravity Waves!), but the number of Speaking of the IPS Facebook page, I am in several of its forms. sources of news has grown exponentially over looking for someone who would like to help Besides the ones listed in the special section, the past decade. administer it and keep it current. What a great be sure to check out Dan Tell, the guest author I try to keep on top of things, and share job for a new IPS member, or a new plane- in Data to Dome on page 62, who writes about items that I find interesting here in Planetar- tarian who would like to take a larger role how his dome takes raw data and amazes the ian and also on the IPS Facebook page. in the society! My email address is above. audience—and researchers—with the results. I also help answer the questions from the You know how to do the rest. I Call for bids for IPS 2020 conference IPS is inviting bid proposals to host the IPS 2020 The IPS Council selects future conference sites three Conference. years before the proposed conference. Bid proposals must be addressed to and received by Your invitation should include information on IPS President Joanne Young by June 18, 2016, prior to your facility, your ability to host large numbers of the start of the 2016 conference in Warsaw. Host bid- people (300 to 500), nearby astronomical attractions, ders are invited to present their proposals at the IPS attractions for the family, information on the host 2016 business meeting, held as part of the conference. city, transportation, and accommodation informa- in Warsaw. tion. The invitation should highlight specific reasons IPS requires that conference invitations be received which make your site particularly suitable and attrac- at least four years before the proposed conference. We tive for the international community of planetarians. require a written invitation signed by the chief execu- For more information, contact Joanne Young at tive officer of the host institution. joanne@av-imagineering.com. I 4 Planetarian March 2016 TiLi m e mit e O ffd er Expand your planetarium’s capacity. Get Uniview Drop-InTM. Uniview Drop-InTM is an easy and quick installation package of servers and software for your existing display system – a cost efficient way to get access to the Uniview planetarium software and the upcoming release of Uniview 3.0. Our engineers manage the server installation on-site, using your existing video infrastructure, and you are good to go! Uniview Access Lifetime & Reliability Uniview Drop-In is an easy, fast, and cost With the extra server cluster you minimize efficient way to get access to Uniview - a downtime in the event of computer modern planetarium software with high- failure, and you prolong the life time of end presentation and production tools, the your existing display system. Everything latest visualization of real-time astronomy is factory installed, configured and tested and neuroscience, domecasting, media before the on-site installation, resulting playback, and much more. in a fast, easy, and extrememly reliable system launch. Display system required for Uniview Drop-In: Price: Included: 2x F35 Barco/Projectiondesign $65,000 Complete server package, Uniview 2.0 including 3.0 upgrade, integrated theater control, factory 2x Any 4K projector $125,000 tests, pre-installation, shipping, on-site installation, staff training 5-7x F35, F32 or F30 Barco/Projectiondesign $125,000 and support. For more info or to request a demo: Sciss International (HQ) | +46 8 55 11 91 00 Sciss North America | +1 978 270 5835 Sciss Middle East | +971 4 256 6695 March 2016 Planetarian 5 Email | sales@sciss.se sciss_p5_march.indd 1 2016-01-29 16:54:00 President’s Message Joanne Young Audio Visual Imagineering 6565 Hazeltine National Drive, Suite 2 Orlando, Florida 32822 USA +1 (407) 859-8166 joanne@av-imagineering.com Dear Fellow Planetarians The year 2015 is behind us and I am pleased to report on of selecting one person to join the team as representative of Karrie Berglund the work accomplished to date by the Vision 2020 Initiative that goal. This new team member could then draw on ad- Team chaired by Jon Elvert and the IPS Council. vice from a small team from his/her peers in the commu- For all of you who have worked on committees or proj- nity. This would be in line with how we are handling the ects within a global, volunteer organi- other V2020 goals. zation, you know it takes considerable time to collaborate from different time I am happy to report this new goal is on its way to being zones, languages, and cultures as we fulfilled when Mark Watson, British Association of Planetar- draw on the best from one another. To ia (BAP) Representative, accepted this position as part of the add to that mix, each organization has Vision 2020 team. I met Mark for the first time in Montre- mandated procedures and protocols to al and found him eager to participate and contribute. I have Ruth Coalson follow. IPS is no different. Considering great faith in him and Vision 2020 as we develop a format this, I am very proud to announce that for young professionals to exercise great influence in devel- the IPS Council and the Vision 2020 Jon Elvert oping the future of IPS. Initiative team have been moving to- Another well-founded statement from the V2020 team: gether at a rapid and steady pace. In addition to Jon, members of the committee are Karrie The V2020 team adamantly believes the IPS needs to Berglund, Ruth Coalson, Marc Moutin, Mark SubbaRao, Dan evolve to meet the challenges that both threaten and beck- Tell, and Mark Watson. on the future. The IPS needs to focus on welcoming the I reported to you earlier that IPS Council and Vision 2020 next generation and embrace youthful participation; it demonstrated our commitment to move IPS forward by must be inclusive of all domes and content; the IPS must Marc Moutin contracting a professional facilitator for our Vision 2020/ compete to survive and empower partnerships, and the IPS Council meeting in Montreal last August. Our facilitator IPS needs to lead and not be led by vendors. It also needs and the Vision 2020 team were able to organize us in such a to provide a strong set of recommendations, so it is our way that each one of the officers and affiliate reps contribut- hope that Council/Officers sincerely support our efforts. ed fully in a creative way, exhausting our hearts and minds for what we, representing you, desire for IPS. In summary, the Vision 2020 Initiative Team recom- After the meeting, Vision 2020 had the task of collecting mends that IPS change its organizational structure and pre- and analyzing each contribution in developing their rec- sented IPS Council with a plan to accomplish this formida- ommendations. ble task. This plan includes a recommendation that IPS hire Mark SubbaRao As a result, Vision 2020 developed draft vision-mission a consultant to do the majority of the work required. statements and short-term recommendations based on The consultant would analyze organizational models SWOT (Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, and Threats) similar to IPS (ASTC, ASP, IMERSA, ECSITE, etc.) in develop- analysis, white papers produced by each V2020 member, ing potential IPS models. These models will help IPS Council and Council outcomes in Montreal. think through its goals, objectives, and mission statement; This document was distributed to the IPS Council for fur- evaluate its core principles; use as a reference source to seek ther feedback until the final document was established and funding; and possibly discover new opportunities and direc- emailed as a Call for Vote. I will summarize that document tions. The models will incorporate the fundamentals of IPS, later. But first, I want to bring two other important matters its products and services, a financial plan, marketing strate- to your attention. gy, and recommendations for what the future of IPS might Dan Tell It has become quite evident that our society has not been look like. encouraging involvement of young planetarium profes- Additionally, Vision 2020 Team recommended a draft for sionals. The Vision 2020 team made the following state- the new IPS website design. ment to the IPS Council: The deadline for this next level, the first draft of the rec- ommended organizational models and website, is June 18, It’s not exactly a secret that the planetarium industry is 2016 at the IPS Council Meeting in Warsaw, Poland. The IPS aging. We need to encourage younger members to active- Council is committed to delivering on our promise to you ly participate in IPS’ future and one way to approach this through the Vision 2020 Initiative. would be to add “attracting younger members” as a goal of I also want to be sure to alert you to the fact that our the Vision2020 charge. The V2020 team is in the process (Continues on page 21) Mark Watson 6 Planetarian March 2016 Dale Smith (left) receives GLPA’s first Mentor Award from President Garry Beckstrom at the 2014 confer- ence at Ball State University, Muncie, Indiana. Look- ing on are Nick Anderson and Adam Leis, two of Dale’s former students and mentees. Photo by Dan Goins. Mentoring: The gift of ourselves that we give to others Bill Buckingham Adam Leis By Joanne Young has lived long enough to see a big crop of pre- was just to believe in him when he had no cre- Mentoring may be one of the greatest gifts cious fruit. “Bill Buckingham was my first here dentials and to open what doors I could.” we can give to one another. For some, it is part at Bowling Green. When I arrived at BG, he was of what they do naturally almost without a junior and a geology major whose real inter- Bill Buckingham, in his words thinking about it. One such person is Dr. Dale est was astronomy, but none of the astrono- “I was six years old when Neil Armstrong Smith, professor and planetarium director at mers were paying much attention to him. Part stepped onto the surface of the moon. Aspects Bowling Green State University in Ohio, Unit- way through my first semester here I under- of the space program were everywhere in our ed States. Dale also served as president of IPS in stood that and started supporting him. He had society at the time so even before the famed 1999-2000, was co-organizer of the 2001 con- so many gifts and talents that I don’t have; all landing, I was already caught up in the excite- ference Sri Lankan Skies and Sir Arthur held I needed to do was to open some doors and say ment of America’s early space program. It was in Colombo, Sri Lanka, and currently serves as ‘do your thing,’ and he blossomed. inescapable for even a small child in the US. IPS publications chair and editor of IPS Direc- “From BGSU, he got hired on at the Rober- My parents and other relatives showered me tories. son Center in Binghamton New York and ren- with space-related models, toys, and color- We can all agree that Dale has achieved a ovated their planetarium, then came back to ing and other children’s books. It was gas on great deal in his own career. I cannot be cer- Ohio and built a fabulous Mission to Mars a flame. Yes, I became interested in astronomy tain, but I am beginning to wonder if perhaps exhibit at COSI in Columbus. From there he from my very early childhood and that inter- his best achievements, instead, might be in went to Lowell Observatory and designed and est has never wavered. those people he has mentored. built their new visitor center for their centen- “Two small telescopes, a microscope, geol- I asked Dale how this whole process start- nial in 1996. While there, he unwittingly men- ogy lab, chemistry lab, and more advanced ed for him. He replied, “It’s paying forward tored Kevin Schindler, who is now Lowell’s books flowed from my incredibly supportive the mentoring we received but could not outreach director and credits Bill in his Face- parents throughout my adolescence and into pay back to our mentors. Tony Aveni men- book account. my teens. I was also interested in rocks and fos- tored me while I was an undergrad at Colgate, “After Lowell, he was briefly at NASA Glenn sils, and ultimately became interested in the though I doubt he thought of it that way at in Cleveland and then was recruited to head Earth. It wasn’t easy growing up in a small, an- the time—he was just doing what came natu- outreach at NASA Goddard in Baltimore. After ti-science town in Ohio knowing from my rally to him. He’s just now starting toward re- the government shutdown, he and his wife earliest age the direction I wanted my life to tirement at age 77, so we have moved through moved to Tucson, where he now heads the proceed. our careers together and he has been an inspi- Kitt Peak Visitor Center, his dream job. I could “Flash forward to my university years at ration to me throughout.” not have done any of the jobs he did, at least Ohio’s Bowling Green State University. I was Dale is one of those prolific mentors who not as well. I think my main role with him rather introverted and not at all good at self- (Continues on page 8) March 2016 Planetarian 7 IPS welcomes two new Affiliate Representatives Shane Hengst, Australasian Planetarium Mike Smail, Great Lakes Planetarium Society Association I am the Physics Outreach manager at the Universi- I’m the Theaters manager at Chicago’s Adler Planetar- ty of New South Wales in Sydney. My goal is to raise the ium, responsible for all aspects of day-to-day operation awareness of science, in particular physics and astrono- of our two domed theaters, and our flatscreen 3D-capa- Shane Hengst-APS my, to the community. ble theater. This involves working with a small team on I organise physics and astronomical public events, systems programming, maintenance, presentation, pro- design and deliver scientific workshops, and devel- duction, and more for our general public, school, and op teaching programs targeted at school students. Our event audiences. most valuable asset is our StarLab, an inflatable portable Before coming to Adler, I worked at the Pennington planetarium, that is most popular with school groups. Planetarium in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, where I pro- I have been delivering StarLab shows since 2008 and I duced content, and was part of the group that put to- am about to launch our new digital portable planetar- gether the highly successful IPS 2012 conference. ium system! You can reach Mike at msmail@adlerplanetarium.org. I also enjoy doing research; I am currently a part-time The affiliate representatives are members’ voices on PhD student studying debris discs in planetary systems. the IPS council. Get to know yours today. I Mike Smail-GLPA Contact Shane at s.hengst@unsw.edu.au. Mentoring: The gift of ourselves that we give to others. . . (Continued from page 7) dewar that was cooling our infrared photom- efited enormously from exposure to his ap- promoting. However, the chair of the Physics eter. If my nervous hands had let drop a tool proach. During my last few years at BG, a new and Astronomy Department, Dr. Bob Bough- or dewar onto one of the six primary mirrors, planetarium and rooftop observatory were ton, on the recommendation of a physics grad I would have forever been known in the as- built and he brought me into every aspect student, offered me a part time job conducting tronomy world as the kid who damaged one of conducting public and university student the department’s public telescope viewing ses- of the world’s largest telescopes at that time. programming in both facilities. He invited me sions every week. This was my first introduc- “Later, he arranged for me to present our to design and create new exhibits for the lob- tion to public speaking, operating telescopes, preliminary results to a Physics & Astronomy by, including a detailed plaster globe of Jupi- and creating public astronomy programs. Department colloquia. When I think back to ter’s moon, Io. “I was a freshman at the time, so it real- how my knees were knocking from nervous- “I learned the innards of planetarium equip- ly made my head spin. My childhood years ness during that presentation, it is a wonder ment, show scripting, recording, slide prepara- of nerdish self-study and reading in astron- that seismic stations in the area did not pick tion, dark room work, and ultimately how to omy, along with the evening visits with my up the tremors. Thankfully, the faculty were present both live and recorded shows in a 40- dad to the Perkins Observatory public nights gentle in their questions at the end of my pre- foot dome with a Minolta star projector. had paid off! Two other professors in the de- sentation. “Dale also experimented heavily with non- partment, Doctors Roger Ptak and Ron Ston- “Later, I performed the laborious and de- traditional planetarium programming, incor- er, were also very gracious and supportive in tailed data reduction and created the charts porating bell choirs, for example. As the read- my early years, inviting me to run the AV for our submission. We published our results ers of this journal know, great planetarium equipment in their classes, providing me with in the planetary science journal Icarus. For an shows require a wide range of interdisciplin- a window into more astronomy content and timid undergrad from a small town, this was ary skills to create and present. Indeed, as a se- distinctive teaching styles. an unprecedented introduction to profession- nior, he allowed me to present a number of “Then Dr. Dale Smith stepped into my life. al world of astronomy and provided me with lectures to university students in his astrono- He mentored me through an individualized opportunities often only afforded to graduate my courses. It was through my work for the major in planetary astronomy, allowing me to students at the time. physics and astronomy department that I dis- combine my two lifelong interests of astron- “Near the end of my time at BG, Ron Ston- covered that my true passion lay not in as- omy and geology. He was stern at times, de- er and Dale Smith extended an invitation to tronomy research, but all aspects of informal manding, but also a very supportive instruc- me for a once in-a-life event: co-lead a large education and outreach. tor, coach, and mentor. university alumni trip to Peru to observe and “This broad based, interdisciplinary train- “More than only learning the content, I ob- photograph Comet Halley. I was in charge ing in the department’s planetarium and obser- tained a close-up view of how scientists think of the telescopes and cameras, as well as the vatory dramatically impacted my career path and how science works. He invited me along nighttime observing sessions under a south- by changing my approach to astronomy out- with him to Arizona for a telescope observing ern hemisphere sky I had learned only in the reach and education. I do not think it an exag- run. We observed a number of Trojan and Hil- planetarium a few weeks prior to the expedi- geration to say that Dale’s work with me and da asteroids for several nights on the Multiple tion. For a kid that had never been out of the the many doors he opened for me provided me Mirror Telescope, south of Tucson, Arizona. country, this was an experience which, to this with a range of experiences more commonly During those nights, he trusted me to operate day, still affects my life. found with advanced graduate education and some of the equipment, and to climb onto the “But Dale’s interests and his approach are several years of various post-doc experiences. telescope trusses and refill the liquid nitrogen extraordinarily interdisciplinary and I ben- (Continues on page 21) 8 Planetarian March 2016 March 2016 Planetarian 9 Guest Editorial Expanding your universe: How to grow an audience for your planetarium Mike Murray Astronomer and Planetarium Manager Delta College Planetarium Bay City, Michigan USA mikemurray@delta.edu Defining Your Purpose bonus experiences with their shows. A well-presented introduction to Fulldome theaters vary widely in goals and level of activity depend- the theater, a special prologue to the program, and/or added vignettes ing on where they are located, the nature of their communities, and about current events and hot topics. These add a personal human the resources available to them. Everyone wants to build a bigger au- touch to the experience that helps audiences feel more engaged and dience. But before you start thinking about strategies, the first critical valued. step is to look at your “purpose for being.” What are you about? What Most importantly, make sure you present yourself as genuinely in- is your key message? How do you want to be defined by the commu- terested in and sincerely passionate about what you´re doing. nity? Why should people care about you? Another factor in determining that “experience” is to understand Your identity needs to be clear, and, most of all, valued to your tar- your competition. There can be many museum and cultural entities get audience. Once you know that mission, you can begin to craft a that may cooperate and coordinate with one another but still repre- strong and succinct message about your significance to the commu- sent competition for leisure activity. Positioning yourself as unique nity. I’m not necessarily talking about the official-sounding “mission among those choices ensures that your community will see you as a statement” because, as valuable as they can be, they often contain for- place to get an extraordinary experience. mal-sounding language that sounds like it was written for a grant ap- The networks of promotion plication. You need to interpret and distill that into an exciting and eloquent message that the public will embrace. Some of the best mes- There are lots of ways to develop greater awareness of the programs sages I’ve seen incorporate the idea of “fun” with whatever their pur- and activities your theater is offering. One of my favorite marketing pose of enlightenment may be. experts, Lindsie Smith at the Clark Planetarium (Salt Lake City, Utah), Who is Your Audience? once said: “It is a basic marketing principle that it takes seven ‘touches’ It´s important to do some research to find out who your primary au- before someone will internalize and/or act upon your call to action.” dience is. Looking at the statistics of who has come to you in the past Today those points of contact have to go beyond the traditional is valuable, i.e., public numbers compared to school visits, demograph- promotions like paid media. Paid advertising is still important to pro- ics, how many are families, etc. But there may be some potential in mote key events and can help generate the word-of-mouth that you’ll other non-traditional groups that haven´t been explored before. What need to spread through the community. But now you can connect would they come to see in your dome? This is where market research through other methods as well, allowing you to reach people from can be valuable. many angles. All of these avenues, combined with repetition, are key Surveys and polls can give you some useful data, but be sure they are to staying on the radar screen of potential audiences. professionally written and that you know how to interpret the results. What are some of these networks? They won’t tell you everything, but they can help give you some ideas on who to target in your promotional efforts, especially if you’re look- TV, radio and print. Get to know people in those media outlets! It won’t happen by simply sending out a news release and then hoping ing to try something new. they pick something up. Follow up those announcements with phone calls and develop a relationship with them. Find out what their inter- Advertise the “full experience” ests are and be able to explain why your program is worthy of me- What makes you unique? Be careful about letting yourself be brand- dia attention. Be able to show the “local interest” in your story wher- ed as simply a “movies in the round” facility. If you only advertise ever possible. Invite them to come over for a preview, a tour, or even “shows” and then herd people in and out of the dome like a movie the- a feature story about your place. And be prepared by having images ater with little or no interactive content then you’re setting people up and (where appropriate) HD video clips available for your programs to compare you to that medium. or events. This should be a part of the carefully-crafted message about who you are. An audience needs to feel like they came to see something Originally appeared on the Sciss Blog, December 18, 2015. Used with the unique and special. Many dome theaters and planetariums now offer permission of author and Sciss. 10 Planetarian March 2016 Email. Building an email subscriber list is an arts, music, or cultural fes- powerful (maybe even more so than social me- tival, see if you can advertise dia) because these are your proven fans. Hav- or even sponsor to get visibili- ing an occasional (once or twice a month) ty. You can return the favor by short enewsletter or alert is more likely to be putting their literature or oth- seen in a targeted email to this group than er promotions at your facility. through social media posts (but don’t underes- Maybe a music club with video timate the reach of social media either). When screens would be willing to play you do post an email, it needs to be brief, high promos of your shows? Or have quality and attractive. It should have: postcards worth a discount to • Exclusive information your music show? You can get • Good design creative here. Delata College Planetarium exterior • High value: Actionable, to-the-point, and Build relationships in your personable (more than just facts) community. People are more Social Media. Choose wisely. You don’t likely to come and try some- need a presence on every platform. Choose thing new if a friend is en- only the ones that you have time to manage couraging and promotes com- well. Sites like Facebook, Twitter, and Insta- munity involvement. Give gram can be good for connecting with your po- presentations to and join local tential audience, but know how to use them ef- organizations. You need to put a fectively. If you only get on to post what looks “face” on your organization! like advertising posters, then it’s going to start feeling like spam to your audiences. Staying On Track Social media is about being “social,” so give There is a lot of competition The planetarium interior them some personality! Tidbits and insights out there for leisure activities. about what you think, inside peeks at what Photos courtesy the author Pay attention to what’s going you’re doing, special events related to your on in your community and see mission. Post things of such interest that they’ll want to share it with how you can be a part of it. Bringing in a show with local interests is their friends. Do some occasional paid ads when you have something one thing, but you can do more with special events that involve local big to promote or to grow your email list. The post should take no lon- talent, whether that be scientific, artistic, musical, or cultural. ger than 8 seconds to read, should always have a visual, and a call to Get as much feedback from as many different people as you can. action with a link. Don’t post too often or it becomes “white noise” Polls and surveys are good, but be sure and get to know your commu- (about four times a week on Facebook is a good average). nity leaders, educators, business owners, and interact with the general Website. This is something you can control, and you need to have public as much as you can. Ask questions and carefully listen to the an- strategies for driving targeted traffic to your site. Get your site listed swers. Connect with people socially as well as professionally. And by on others, like community event calendars, astronomy clubs, media all means, have fun and show some enthusiasm for what you do! I stations, colleges, etc. Make your content there well laid out, easy to find, and engaging. Be visual and entertaining. Have concise descrip- Mike Murray is the astronomer and planetar- tions that entice interest and action. Give people opportunities to ium manager for the Delta College Planetar- “learn more” (don’t try and cram too much on your home page). Have ium and Learning Center in Bay City, Mich- it professionally designed so it can be easily maintained and updated igan. His previous posts include programs manager for the Clark Planetarium in Salt in house. Lake City, Utah, and assistant director for Blog. This is another avenue for reaching people with targeted in- the Taylor Planetarium in Bozeman, Montana. terests. It helps to expand your online presence and establish you and Mike is an avid amateur astronomer with ex- your institution as an expert source. It’s another fun and creative out- periences in the Astronomical League, sci- let for you, your staff and your audiences. ence centers, the National Parks, and NASA. When not observing, he’s outdoors with his Cross promotion with local events and businesses. Find festivals German Shepherds. and vendors with whom you can cooperate on advertising. If there is The 2016 IPS Elections The IPS has announced the call for nominations for president elect, secretary, and treasurer for 2017-2018. Martin George, chair of the Elections Committee, is keen to receive nominations, which can be sent to him at martingeorge3@hotmail.com. Nominations also will be received from the floor at the 2016 IPS Conference in Warsaw, Poland. The IPS election process is your chance, as a member, to have your say in who you would like to see filling these important positions, and how the IPS is run. Note that the terms of office for secretary and treasurer are two years each, but the office of president elect is a six-year commitment: two years as president elect, followed by two years as president in 2019-2020 and two years as past president in 2021-2022. If you are interested in nominating a person or standing for one of these positions, feel free to contact Martin on the email address above if you would like to discuss the duties of IPS Officers. I March 2016 Planetarian 11 19-23 JUNE Copernicus Science Centre and Heavens of Copernicus Planetarium (Photo: A.Steifer) Spinning, turning, circling. We chose “Revolve” as the theme for the Solve, IPS 2016 conference with good reason: to reflect who we are. In constant motion, with our heads full of ideas, open to “outside-the- evolve, box” suggestions. Come get to know our creative staff at the Heavens of Coperni- involve… cus Planetarium. Come visit vibrant Warsaw, a modern city that has been through a very challenging past. REVOLVE! Come experience Poland, with a rich history of events that have inspired people to act, protest, affect change, and incite revolutions. 12 Planetarian March 2016 From left: Perseid observation night on August 12, 2015 (Photo: W.Surdziel)’ Warsaw’s Castle Square; Main Market Square in Cracow. By the IPS 2016 Team Copernicus Science Centre Warsaw, Poland The Heavens of Copernicus Planetarium at- string,” “Best practices in live touring through hit victims of 20th-century history. Looking tracts visitors like a magnet. We infect people the universe,” “Towards a new language: art, at Warsaw today, it is hard to believe that it with our enthusiasm in sharing our passion science and immersion”—these are just some was nearly razed to the ground 70 years ago. and knowledge. And that’s one of the rea- of the session topics awaiting you at IPS 2016. Yet the city survived, re-emerging from the sons for our planetarium’s popularity and suc- We have prioritized sessions of substance in ruins. Poland’s capital is now brimming with cess: a gigantic group of astronomy-lovers has the conference programme, while at the same energy and has an optimistic outlook. It is full formed around the Heavens of Copernicus. time not forgetting about the practical side. of excellent museums bringing certain chap- On warm nights in June, we have managed Where do planetarians feel most at home? Un- ters of its stormy history into better focus, to bring together large crowds of participants der a dome, of course! Especially for you, we from Chopin’s joyful music to the tragedy of in sleeping bags strewn around the museum’s are building two additional domes, where you the Jewish ghetto in WWII. grounds, and more than 10,000 people partic- will be able to experience, test, and compare The city is notable for its unique architec- ipate in our annual Perseid observation night the best projection systems made by the lead- tural mixture: restored Gothic churches, mod- in August. ing manufacturers. We will provide top-qual- ernist tenement houses from the interwar pe- On ordinary days, hundreds of visitors en- ity logistical infrastructure and technical sup- riod, imposing socialist-realist edifices from 19-23 JUNE joy our shows and demonstrations and par- port. The exhibition space will accommodate communist times, and skyscrapers of steel and ticipate in lectures, rendezvous, and concerts several dozen stands, and the dome village glass. In the summer, the narrow medieval under the starry sky. Teachers participate in will feature state-of-the-art planetarium hard- streets of the Warsaw Old Town (listed as a workshops carried out in collaboration with ware as well as shows and workshops. UNESCO World Heritage Site) become charm- the European Space Agency. The city of Warsaw was one of the hardest- (Continues on page 21) And, more importantly, members of our au- dience leave with a desire to come back. The opportunity to experience this magnificent atmosphere and the chance to get to know our impassioned staff—these are just two of the many reasons to take part in the IPS 2016 conference. Many more can be found in the programme for the event. A good balance “We want to maintain a good balance. Our priority will be on showcasing good content and planetarium-related know-how, while at the same time facilitating contacts with the world’s best companies and specialists”, says Robert Firmhofer, director of the Copernicus Science Centre in Warsaw. We want to make sure that every partic- ipant of IPS 2016 has the kind of experience they came for, be they an astronomer, educa- tor, presenter, or planetarium director. We have grouped together the several doz- en sessions into themes that are relevant to both running day-to-day operations and plan- ning long-term projects. “Fulldome on a shoe- March 2016 Planetarian 13 Messages from the Pale Blue Dot oneearthmessage.org Look again at that dot. That's here. That's home. That's us. On it everyone you love, everyone you know, everyone you ever heard of, every human being who ever was, lived out their lives. The aggregate of our joy and suffering, thousands of confident religions, ideologies, and economic doctrines, every hunter and forager, every hero and coward, every creator and destroyer of civilization, every king and peasant, every young couple in love, every mother and father, hopeful child, inventor and explorer, every teacher of morals, every corrupt politician, every "superstar," every "supreme leader," every saint and sinner in the history of our species lived there—on a mote of dust suspended in a sunbeam. Carl Sagan, Pale Blue Dot, 1994 This will be a message from and to the Earth. The very act of creating it will be a powerful reminder that we all share the same, small plant. We truly are One Earth. Jon Lomberg, Project Director, 2016 14 Planetarian March 2016 One Earth is working to keep the legacy alive Planetariums around the globe can help Jon Lombard spread the excitement By Sharon Shanks Editor Planetariums across the globe have an awe- to support it, we are not alone in the universe; some chance to take part in a “new message we’re saying, al la Horton Hears a Who1, that in a bottle” being proposed for the New Ho- “we are here, we are here, we are here.” rizons extended mission. The craft, after its “The Voyager record turned out be a much successful and exciting flyby of Pluto in July more popular and profound activity than we 2015, is now heading through the Kuiper Belt expected,” Lomberg said. This tremendous in- and eventually leave the solar system. terest showed to Lomberg and others that an It will be the fifth craft to leave the gravita- “awfully high percentage of people are inter- tional attraction of the sun; two Pioneer crafts est in space.” and two Voyagers also have made this trek. To put something on a message on a space- The difference? The four earlier spacecraft craft, “a message for extraterrestrials, that’s ex- bore with them physical “messages” citing,” he said. The message actually Jon Lomberg at his black hole fountain, locat- from Earth; plaques for the Pio- was for two audiences: for us, the ed at the center of his Galaxy Garden (www. neers and golden records for people of Earth, and for an ex- galaxygarden.net) the Voyagers. The messag- traterrestrial that we’ll nev- es were Carl Sagan’s pas- er know about. sion for sharing scientific “Sagan pointed out thinking about what’s important to say about knowledge made tangi- that the message (on the Earth.” ble and open for the en- Voyager record) was not tire world to take part. from NASA or the US, How can planetariums take part? Now Jon Lomberg, but from all of us. Glob- Planetarium programs, perhaps connected longtime friend and illus- al participation is impor- to already-scheduled Pluto shows, can spread trator for Sagan and a mem- tant. Small countries with the word and show people how they can par- ber of the team behind the no space program” will have a ticipate. “Wide participation—outreach is the Voyager Gold Record, is work- voice in space, Lomberg said. key to that. We envision workshops and ac- ing to secure a digital message to be There are several hooks from tivities for students, like how to take pictures uploaded to New Horizons so that the lega- which planetarians can hang the One Earth to share.” cy of messages to the cosmos continues. Message. The first is generational. “The record Another possibility would connect schools The project is called One Earth Message; was in 1977; it’s time for something else to in- from different countries. One class could write Lomberg is the project director and has gath- spire the rising generation,” Lomberg noted. a message and send to another group for re- ered an international advisory board to help Another significant difference is “every- view, and vice versa. carry it out. body can be involved; everyone will have a Participation is as easy as connecting to the The message will be from all people. It rep- say in what we can send.” This active partic- One Earth Message website: oneearthmessage. resents our hope for the future, that we will go ipation opens up the process; “it gets people org. on and that our memories will go on. It also is Planetarians can help their audiences real- an affirmation that, although we have no data 1 Horton Hears a Who, by Dr. Seuss, tells the story of an ize the time scale of the messages that Earth elephant who finds a tiny world on a speck of dust. has sent into our galactic neighborhood. The record aboard the Voyagers will last for Facing Page: This narrow-angle color image of the Earth is a part of the first ever "portrait" of the solar billions of years, for example. system taken by Voyager 1. From Voyager's great distance, Earth is a mere point of light, less than the “With digital, we have no idea how long it size of a picture element even in the narrow-angle camera. Earth was a crescent only 0.12 pixel in size. Coincidentally, Earth lies right in the center of one of the scattered light rays resulting from taking the will last. One hundred thousand years? With image so close to the sun. This blown-up image of the Earth was taken through three color filters—vi- different technology, maybe a million years?” olet, blue and green—and recombined to produce the color image. The background features in the im- Lomberg said. age are artifacts resulting from the magnification. NASA/JPL A video made for the initial fundrais- This image inspired the title of Carl Sagan's 1994 book, Pale Blue Dot: A Vision of the Human Future in Space. (Continues on page 16) March 2016 Planetarian 15 (One Earth Message, continued from page 15) ing effort can be see at www.youtube.com/ watch?v=1dOiFJ-5QbA. “A new video could be based on this, remix- ing that to include images from the actual Pluto encounter, and produced expressly for dome presentation,” Lomberg suggested. “Per- haps production of that could be one of the roles planetarians can play?” There’s enough time to do it right There is plenty of time for the project to gather data for the Earth Message before any uploading can take place. It will not be trans- mitted until all the mission science is complete. Although a Kuiper Belt Object (2014 MU69) has been selected as New Horizon’s next tar- get, NASA is still reviewing the expected mis- sion extension. One aspect of the extension is troubling: the proposal will not include EPO (education and public outreach, a typical in- NASA clusion in most NASA funding). Despite this, Lomberg said that “NASA is currently reviewing the project with great in- The plaque terest.” New Horizons Principle Investigator is secured to one of supportive of the One Earth project, and also the Pioneer craft. is a member of the One Earth advisory board. Wikimedia Com- mons/NASA. “We will be in touch with (New Horizons) for 50 years or more. The original participants will have kids and grandkids by then, and will still be connected.” People who are interested in taking part, especially those who would like to be a local Before the golden record, there were Pioneer golden plaques representative in their country, are encour- aged to contact the One Earth project. We always hear about Pioneers 10 and 11, ious number and letter combinations, ei- “The message should be made by people the craft designed to leave the solar system. ther were lost in launch failures or failed to who want to make it,” Lomberg noted. There were many oth- achieve orbit. Already on the advisory board are several er craft named Pio- Pioneer 4, launched on March 3, 1959, be- names familiar to IPS: Kaoru Kimura, affiliate neer, however, came the first US probe to escape Earth’s representative for the Japan Planetarium As- that we barely gravity. It successfully flew by the moon sociation; Ian McLennan, representative for remember to- before reaching heliocentric orbit; it was the Canadian Association of Science Centres; day. The Pio- still there as of 1969. and Derrick Pitts, directory of the Fels Plane- neer program Various other Pioneer missions were tarium at the Franklin Institute in Philadel- was initiated sent to interplanetary space to take mag- phia. for the Inter- netic and solar particle readings, sending Also on the board: Paul Curnow, lecturer at national Geo- back the first useful data about solar storms. the Adelaide Planetarium and a council mem- physical Year Pioneer 10, launched in March 1972, ber of the Astronomical Society of South Aus- (1957-58) and as- was the first mission to the outer planets. tralia. signed to the Air Force It achieved escape velocity from the sun You can learn more at www.jonlomberg. Ballistic Missile Division and the Army Bal- shortly after its flyby of Jupiter. It was 80 com and oneearthmessage.org. I listic Missile Agency. The program was ad- AU from earth when radio contact was lost opted by NASA in 2003. upon its formation Pioneer 11 was tasked with studying in 1958. the asteroid belt, the space around Jupiter These first pio- and Saturn, solar wind, and cosmic rays. It neers in space had launched on April 5, 1973; last contact was difficulty getting in 1995. to their assign- Both Pioneer 10 and 11 bore the gold-an- ments, primarily odized aluminum plaques bearing the same orbiting the moon. pictorial message. The first seven Pi- Additional Pioneer probes were sent to oneer/Able craft, orbit and land probes on Venus. I each bearing var- Sharon Shanks 16 Planetarian March 2016 March 2016 Planetarian 17 Nearly forty years ago, humanity created a modern message in a bottle and launched it into the cosmic ocean. The Voyager Golden Record is a testament to the optimism of our species, and of one unique member of the human race, Carl Sagan. The Voyager Golden Record: Humanity Says “Hello” to the Cosmos T h e goal of the committee was not to send primarily scientif- ic information out into the cosmos; they knew that if the message was ever intercept- ed, it would be by an intelligence with far more scientific knowledge than humans have Renae Kerrigan Eric Burgess, a reporter who followed the Pi- yet acquired. Instead, they attempted to in- Planetarium Curator oneer missions, proposed to Carl Sagan that clude examples of what makes our planet and Peorioa Riverfront Museum some sort of message be included on the crafts, humanity unique. Peoria, Illinois 61602 USA and Sagan enthusiastically took on the project This was a daunting task. How would one renae.stenger@gmail.com with NASA’s approval. The iconic images in- give a sense of what living on this planet is stalled on the Pioneer crafts were the result of like to a totally alien being? How could one three weeks of work by Sagan, Frank Drake, possibly sum up all the wonderful forms of The idea of including a message from Plan- and Sagan’s then wife, Linda Salsman. life that inhabit this world, and the incredible et Earth on an interstellar craft began with the When the Voyager missions were being things humans have created and can do? Pioneer 10 and 11 missions, launched in 1972 planned, Sagan had a second chance to cre- The committee decided to carefully select and 1973. It is easy to imagine the excitement ate a more complete message. He organized representational sounds, music, and images of mission scientists and astronomers, work- a committee to select the information that and encode the data on a 12-inch gold-plat- ing on the first missions that would explore would be included in the message. Frank ed copper phonograph record. Trying to put the outer solar system and continue traveling Drake and Linda Salzman returned to help. themselves in the role of an extraterrestri- through interstellar space! Never before had Ann Druyan, Timothy Ferris, and Jon Lom- al, they imagined what an alien being would humans sent a physical object out to the stars. berg joined the team. want to know about humans, and how the re- 18 Planetarian March 2016 cord’s contents would be interpreted. by the Beatles, who supported the idea. EMI on Earth. The committee members tried to se- The first recording on the record is a greet- was opposed, however, so “Johnny B. Goode” lect images of humans caring for one anoth- ing from then-UN Secretary General Kurt by Chuck Berry was included instead. er, learning, fabricating tools and art, and re- Waldheim, followed by greetings in 55 lan- An hour-long recording of the brain waves sponding to challenges. guages. Ancient Sumerian and Greek were in- of Ann Druyan was encoded on the record. Although war and violence have always cluded, as were five Chinese dialects. While her brain waves were being record- been a part of the human experience on the Carl Sagan’s son Nick spoke one of the Eng- ed, Duryan reports trying to focus very hard planet, images depicting those subjects were lish greetings, saying “Hello from the children on the history of Earth and life on it, and excluded. They did not want the message to of planet Earth.” the history of ideas and social organization. be misinterpreted as a threat. Following the greetings was an eclec- She thought of the challenges on the plan- Probably more iconic than the content of tic “Sounds of Earth” section. The commit- et, including violence and poverty. She also the Golden Record are the symbols on the tee’s purpose with this section was to include thought about the human experience of love, cover. Sagan and the team built off the logic sounds that would have been heard on the having just gotten engaged to Sagan two days used for the Pioneer plaques to create a mes- planet even before the origin of life, such as previously, in a surprise proposal over the sage that would be interpretable to any being bubbling mud pots, to the loud noises made phone. with an understanding of the laws of physics. by modern technology, including a Saturn V Sagan and Druyan admitted that it was a At the bottom left corner is the pulsar map rocket launch. long shot that any intelligence would be able also included on the Pioneer plaques, showing to interpret the brain waves, but on the off the position of the sun in relation to 14 pul- Recording the sounds of life chance that it might be possible, decided they sars. The dashed lines are binary code for the Sounds of weather, animals, footsteps, might as well include it. pulsar frequencies. heartbeats, laughter, machines, a kiss, a moth- Next to this map is a drawing of the hydro- er talking to her child, and per aspera ad astra How can life be characterized? gen atom, which also included on the previ- in Morse code were some of the selections in- How would you characterize life on Earth ous message. The hydrogen atom is depicted cluded in the twelve-minute recording. in images? The committee selected 116. The in its two lowest states. The vertical lines with Listening to this compilation is a bit bizarre. first images were instructional, showing how the dots indicate the spin moments of the One sound flows into the next, without tran- to calibrate the record, giving key informa- proton and electron. The fundamental time it sition or explanation. I imagine an extraterres- tion about the solar system, definitions of the takes to transition from one state to the next, trial would be bemused by the sounds, if they units used in maps, and images of the plan- 0.70 billionths of a second, is the unit used in ever found and decoded the disc. You can lis- ets. A sequence of images showed the essential all other symbols on the record, and indicated ten to the entire audio portion of the record components to human life: diagrams of DNA, with a connecting line and digit 1. on the JPL website at voyager.jpl.nasa.gov/ cells, and organs, followed by diagrams and In the upper left corner is a line drawing of spacecraft/sounds.html or on YouTube at goo. images showing how humans grow, from the the record and the stylus included, showing gl/GEbVIu point of conception to adult. the correct position to play the record from Befitting a record, 90 minutes of music was The rest of the images appear random at the beginning. Around the drawing is bina- included. Committee members selected mu- first glance; a seashore, rush hour traffic, an ry code showing the correct time of one ro- sic from around the world; classics from East- eagle, a supermarket, a page from a book, the tation, 3.6 seconds. A side view of the record ern and Western cultures. Bach’s Brandenburg Taj Mahal, and a gymnast are just a few of the (Continues on next page) Concerto flows into an Indonesian song, “Pus- various images included. However, upon pawarna,” which fades into a Senegalese per- reflection, one can see that each image cussion recording, and so on. Sagan requested was deliberately selected to try to con- permission to include “Here Comes the Sun” vey some vital information about life Left: The relative position of the sun to the center of the Galaxy and 14 pulsars with their periods denoted, taken from images on the Voyager and Pioneer mes- sages for use in a planetarium program. It also appears on a bit newer technolo- gy: a DVD. Images courtesy Dan Tell. March 2016 Planetarian 19 (Golden Record, continued from page 19) ing in the general direction of Camelopar- take approximately 40,000 years to get to the and stylus is below, with binary code show- dalis. Alpha Centauri system. Even if the crafts are ing about one hour is required to play the en- Voyager 2, launched in August of 1977, someday found, it is unlikely that the messag- tirety. explored all the gas giants and remains the es will have meaning to an alien species. The drawings in the upper right were in- only spacecraft to have visited Uranus and The record was created and sent with un- tended to show how pictures could be con- Neptune. It is approximately 108 AU dis- realistic expectations, but also with the very structed from the record’s signals. The first im- tant, and expected to enter the interstel- real sense that it was important to try to com- age is a typical signal that occurs at the start lar medium in the first months of 2016. It municate with the unknown. Carl Sagan de- of a picture. The picture is made from the sig- is traveling roughly toward the Androme- scribed the Golden Record as “a love song cast nal, which traces the picture as a series of ver- da constellation and will pass 1.7 light years upon the vastness of the deep.” tical lines (similar to televisions and radio tele- from the star Ross 248 in 40,000 years. It is a beautiful thing to have a perfectly scopes). The center drawing shows how 152 Like the Pioneer “postcards to space,” the preserved message in a bottle hurtling away lines drawn vertically will create a picture. Golden Record captured the imagination from our star at 36,000 miles per hour. Our The circle in a box below is the first image of humanity. The combination of the ex- books will decay, the data stored on the inter- that would be produced if the signal is inter- otic images on the cover, the eclectic infor- net will be lost eventually, our monuments preted correctly. mation encoded, and the romantic notion will crumble. Everything on this planet has a The record cover is coated with an ultra- of sending a message to the stars contin- fleeting lifespan. But the Golden Records will pure source of uranium-238 that will act as a ues to inspire. Forty years later, it persists in last. The erosion in space caused by cosmic clock. Half the uranium will decay in 4.51 bil- popular culture, from the Saturday Night rays and dust is so slow that Sagan expected lion years. It is conceivable that an intelligent Live skit in which Steve Martin announced the records to last a billion years. Even if they recipient of the message could examine the re- extraterrestrials wanted “more Chuck Ber- are never found, they are a wonderful exam- cord, measure the amount of remaining ura- ry,” to movies using aliens responding to ple of scientific optimism, and the best of nium, and calculate the time elapsed since the our message as a central plot point, and tat- humanity. I spacecraft was launched. toos of the pulsar map decorating geeks’ A copy of the Golden Record was in- bodies worldwide. stalled on each Voyager spacecraft. Voyager Scientists knew that it is incredibly un- Renae Kerrigan is the Planetarium Curator at 1, launched in September 1977, explored Ju- likely that the Voyager spacecrafts will the Peoria Riverfront Museum. She has long piter, Saturn and Titan. The encounter with ever be intercepted by an intelligent life admired the great Carl Sagan for his lyrical Titan directed the spacecraft out of the solar form. Their trajectories do not take them writing and speaking style, and his ability to communicate the Cosmos in an understand- system’s plane. It has traveled beyond the he- by any nearby stars, and even if they were able way to all. liosphere, and is now over 125 AU away, head- traveling in the right direction, it would 20 Planetarian March 2016 (Mentoring, continued from page 8) (Revolve, continued from page 13) “The national traveling exhibit Mission to many other ways. He recently presented a pa- ing venues for musical and theatrical perfor- Mars was ultimately seen by several million per at the 2015 GLPA Conference titled “Scien- mances. visitors in North America and Asia and gar- tific Humility.” The riverside boulevards are teeming with nered several design awards. I could not have Dale introduced Adam to the GLPA com- life and the city has many inviting art galler- designed and developed that 6,000 square munity as a freshman at Bowling Green and ies, theatres, and cinemas. Warsaw lies at the foot space exhibit without the combination encouraged him to participate. “I continued heart of Europe. Berlin, Prague, and Budapest of planetary astronomy training, exhibit de- attending the conferences, networking ,and are just hours away by train, and all of Eu- sign, program presentation, and many other enjoying the people,” states Adam. “I felt a rope’s capitals and most beautiful cities are skills that Dale helped me develop, and, just part of the community. Dale encouraged me well-connected by a network of inexpensive as important, the self-confidence he instilled to present papers, which I did each year.” and convenient air connections. in me. “I am thankful to have recognized early on We have Copernicus! “My progression of projects at Lowell Ob- that Dale was investing a lot in me and 2 oth- servatory, NASA, and now at Kitt Peak Na- er students. Most people invest in themselves China has its ancient astronomy, Egypt the tional Observatory were enabled by the close only, but not Dale. I value and appreciate our Library of Alexandria. What do we have? Co- mentoring, constructive criticism, interdis- discussions and gleaned a lot of wisdom from pernicus! We would like to give you a closer ciplinary approaches, and door opening that him. look at our patron, the outstanding astron- Dale Smith provided. I can never adequately “Dale taught me something that I will use omer who “halted the sun and set the Earth thank or repay him, or the other faculty in the all my life. In one discussion I made a state- moving,” by taking you on an excursion to Physics & Astronomy Department, for all the ment to Dale about something I heard. He the city of Toruń, where he was born. special attention and opportunities. was quiet and very thoughtful for a time. He We likewise want to show you other cor- “Although my positions have been differ- replied, ‘Do you believe it because you have ners of our beautiful country. You may opt to ent from Dale’s faculty position, I try very investigated it, or do you believe because you go to the northern city of Gdańsk, the original hard to pay forward to students and young want to believe it?’ Before I make statements, home of the “Solidarity” movement, a mass staff whenever I can. I would not have had the that question comes to mind.” outpouring that was crucial in bringing down incredible wealth of experiences in my career Adam is a young man with a long list of ac- communism in Central and Eastern Europe. path without the kind of mentoring provided complishments ahead of him. I am guessing And no list of attractions would be com- by Dale Smith and I would like to think I have from Dale’s patterns, he will continue pour- plete without a visit to the old royal city opened some doors and positively impacted ing into Adam’s life as Adam continues giving of Cracow, which users of the website the paths of young people. back to the planetarium community and pay- Travel&Leisure (www.travelandleisure.com) “I am keenly aware that many universities ing forward what he has learned. voted one of the 10 most interesting places in do not take into account for pay or promo- Dale, Bill, Adam ,and others like them are the world to visit! tion Dale’s mentoring activities that so bene- worthy of our lives. Invest yourself in anoth- But irrespective of whether you decide to fited me. In this sense, Dale would have been er. The rewards simply multiply. I visit the Copernicus museum in his home- better served focusing on paper publication town, enjoy a coffee amidst the old Hanseatic and professional activities, rather than men- streets of Gdańsk, visit the 14th century Waw- toring me and students who came along af- (President, continued from page 6) el Castle in Cracow, or admire the amazing ter me. V2020 team will be presenting a panel session sights of the nearby, truly unique salt mine at “His work with me was, in this narrow bu- at IPS2016 regarding the collected member- Wieliczka, there is one thing we do know for reaucratic view, a needless overload. I know ship feedback, the need for professional devel- certain. that it stemmed from a generous heart and a opment, and recommended next steps. This Poland will definitely captivate you. You willingness to help future generations.” should prove to be very exciting! will find the country full of diversity, amaz- I am honored to be a part of this collabora- ing architecture, enchanting culture, history Adam Leis speaks next tion with our Vision 2020 team and our IPS and art, and find the Poles full of passion, en- Adam Leis, one of Dale’s most recent men- Council. I encourage you to participate in this thusiasm and courage. Come see for yourself tees, graduated from BGSU with a bachelor in adventure by running for office, or working why Poland is famous for its hospitality! Fine Arts, focusing on digital art, and a minor closely with your Affiliate Representative. in Astronomy. He’s been actively involved Thank you for your trust in us. We look for- Main Market Square in Cracow with the Great Lakes Planetarium Associa- ward to seeing you in Warsaw! This year’s IPS conference will be a mo- tion developing their website and assisting in We’re in this together! I ment of special significance for us. Not only does it include such a wide range of attrac- tions and provide such a conducive space for fruitful meetings and encounters, but it also comes precisely on the fifth anniversary of when the Heavens of Copernicus planetari- um first opened. There could be no better way to spend such a birthday than surrounded by excellent friends from around the world! We plan for IPS 2016 to be a joyous event for the whole community of planetarians. We are re- ally looking forward to seeing you in Warsaw! Detailed information and news about the conference are available on the website: www. ips2016.org. I March 2016 Planetarian 21 Immerse Yourself 22 Planetarian March 2016 Immersion. It’s what we do. But if you ask 10 people to define the word, you will get 10 different answers. And now the definition is being challenged by virtual reality, augmented reality, and new technology. Learn more about immersion, starting with a research article on simulations and learning in science, on page 24 Julieta Aguilera looks at “Planetariums in the era of VR” on page 30 Charlie Morrow explains “What is 3D Immersive Sound” on page 34 ENTROPIA performed in the dome at SAT dur- ing the Immersion Experience IX Symposium in 2015. Photo © Sébastien Roy, used with permis- sion. See more in Fulldome Matters on page 66. March 2016 Planetarian 23 Planetarium Research How Can Simulations Promote Learning in Science? An Exploratory Study to Examine Two Simulation Tools Pamela A. Maher1,2, P.G. Schrader1, James Ormord2, and Andrew W. Kerr2 1University of Nevada Las Vegas, maherp@unlv.nevada.edu 2College of Southern Nevada Introduction sive computer experience in three dimen- The big question that these goals foreshad- Over the past 15 years, there has been pres- sions occurring in real time. The participant is ow involves the role of the planetarium and sure to increase the level of science, technolo- able to interact with and, to some degree, con- the VR headset as simulations to promote gy, engineering, and math (STEM) literacy in trol the experience. The ability to experience learning. The purpose of this study is to an- the United States. This pressure precipitates a learning using the senses in science is a pri- swer the question “How can simulations pro- change in national school politics with a re- mary observational method for data collec- mote learning in science? Can emerging simu- tooling of the way students are prepared to tion when learning or researching. Tools im- lation tools such as VR headsets enhance and enter institutions of higher education. The prove the ability to take in information using extend the work begun in 1923, when Wal- national demographic continues to diversify, the senses, similar to the way that Galileo used ther Bauersfeld created the first learning envi- highlighting the importance of identifying the first telescope as a tool to enhance his ob- ronment by simulating the night sky and ce- impediments to STEM education with respect servation of the night sky. In Cobb and Fraser lestial body movement in Jena, Germany?” to achievement in these fields for underrepre- (2010) the definition is more extensive: Some of the ancillary questions guiding the sented groups (Triandis, Kurowski & Gelfand, Virtual reality describes the combination study include “How can these technologies be 1994). of systems comprising computer processing leveraged to promote learning? What are the This turns the spotlight on traditions of (PC-based or higher), a building platform for impacts of these tools as simulation environ- science teaching and learning to determine creating three-dimensional environments, ments to teach children and students about, what methods may increase achievement and peripherals such as visual display and in- say, moon phases (Plummer, 2009)?” Another for a diverse student population. Diversity in teraction devices that are used to create and example of the effect of simulations on teach- students pursing STEM-career careers is par- maintain virtual environments. Virtual envi- ing astronomy concepts occur when showing amount in order for the US to maintain its ronments refer to the three-dimensional envi- examples of direct vs. indirect energy transfer competitive edge in the world today (Col- ronments created. The simulation may be of from the sun and why seasonal change occurs lier, 2010). As the nation examines education real or imaginary environments. The first de- due to the earth’s tilt. to determine methods to increase not only fining feature of virtual environments is that the number but also the diversity of students they can be explored in real time with simi- Theoretical justification choosing to study STEM, issues of STEM edu- lar freedom to real-world exploration. The Review of the literature identifies variables cation are considered and reformed. second defining feature is that the user may in virtual reality as attributes in the virtual “The educational value of simulations have interact with objects and events in the simu- environment of the planetarium simulation been theorized and empirically investigated lation. (p. 525) and the virtual reality headset, such as senso- for more than 20 years” (Fabricatore and Lo- What Fraser means is virtual reality extends ry perception, physical manipulability, and pez, 2012, p. 211). Thus, this exploratory study the use of human senses in a way similar to interaction quality (Lee, 2004; Crosier, Cobb examines the changing face of simulations the way in which a telescope extends the abil- & Wilson, 2002). According to Cobb and Fras- with a focus on fulldome planetarium sys- ity to see into the night sky. Using simulations er (2010), some of the attributes that could en- tems and virtual reality (VR) headsets. to teach allows students to be immersed in an hance learning in the virtual environment in- Two examples of VR headsets are the Ocu- environment in a way that is impossible to do clude: lus Rift and Google Cardboard. Both of these in the observatory. …visualization and manipulation of in- technologies can be enabled to simulate the For example, when a student is in the plan- visible phenomena, the ability to take on night sky and celestial motion. According to etarium environment, the content surrounds different perspectives, the exploration of Perin (2009), these simulations have certain the student and gives freedom of movement dangerous situations, reality and altered advantages over direct observation. For exam- in the simulation. reality, and three-dimensional represen- ple, the ability to speed up the motion of night According to Kasper (2014), a VR headset is tation of abstract concepts. (p. 530) sky over a few minutes allows different times- a device worn on the head that allows a user pans of hundreds of years to be simulated. to experience a virtual reality as opposed to Attributes afforded by the technology in- A simulation of moon phases can assist stu- their actual reality. This affords the user a sim- clude presence, real-time interaction, learning dents in making conceptual changes to their ulation experience that is portable and trans- style, flexibility as a teaching tool, and possi- understanding of the movement of celestial ferable to other venues and users, but is con- bly increased motivation in the learner (Cro- bodies. Simulations can also demonstrate the strained by the single user experience unless sier et al., 2002). Of these variables, those that night sky from different latitudes; students liv- multiple headsets are available and all users could be included as social variables are learn- ing in the northern hemisphere can observe the consume the same immersive computer ex- night sky and see an asterism such as the South- perience simultaneously, analogous to the Submitted: July 16, 2015 ern Cross using the simulated environment. group experience of seeing their bodies and Review Returned: September 17, 2015 According to Reid (2002), VR is an immer- each other in a planetarium. Accepted: October 20, 2015 24 Planetarian March 2016 ing style, flexibility, motivation, and real-time learning, increases opportunities for student in a non-traditional fashion? interaction. Cognitive variables include reali- achievement, but can also identify new chal- Literature reveals that the US recruits its ty and altered reality as well as presence. lenges and opportunities to inform the prac- STEM workforce from a relatively homog- The affordances and constraints of each tice and achieve increased science literacy for enous pool of students graduating in these technology differ and may affect the problem a broader demographic of students. fields (Leggon, 2006). This pool has been, and of simulations and their influence on learn- Teaching science literacy involves not only continues to be, racially and socio-economi- ing. Both VR and fulldome afford presence: traditional school science, but also the Infor- cally similar. As the US population changes, it the ability to lose yourself in the simulation, mal Stem Education (ISE) domain. This incor- is important to identify the drivers and mo- i.e. you are comfortable in this environment porates the out-of-school science that students tivators that attract under-represented groups and you know it is not real but you think it is consume and includes a range of formats and to study STEM. This diversity not only fills de- (Iribe, 2014). According to Lee (2004), presence offerings, such as science programming, science mands for workers in these fields, but also en- is a “psychological state in which the virtuali- reading, science clubs and activities, and the sci- hances the quality and variety of perspectives ty of experience is unnoticed (p.32).” entific communities of practice of science mu- a diverse population brings to bear on science. Presence also can be described as the feel- seums, centers, zoos, and planetariums. Identification and amelioration of any bar- ing of being there, in the place, or in another It is this interest in the role of ISE and its riers that hinder students’ ability to perform world other than the one where the body is lo- place in the general scheme of science literacy well in STEM fields is important to consider cated (Schloerb, 1995; McLellan, 1996; Slater and that the question is raised: What is the purpose when trying to achieve these goals. One con- Usoh, 1993; Rheingold, 1991; & Reeves 1991). of a planetarium in the mission of science for sideration is the role that ISE plays in build- Another attribute for both the VR headset all? Are there other tools, such as VR headsets, ing interest and brokering at the boundaries and fulldome is persistence. Persistence influ- that can be used for student achievement, con- of informal science and school science. Exam- ences real-time interaction. Persistence is re- ceptual change, and increased motivation and ination of new tools is of interest, as not all ferred to in degrees of motion blur or “judder.” interest in science learning by underrepresent- learners achieve in a traditional classroom sit- Judder is defined as an artifact that occurs ed groups who may consume STEM knowledge uation. when content is shown with a 60Hz refresh rate. Standard frame rate for film is 24 frames per second (fps). When watching content at 60Hz, the player detects the incoming signal and fills in missing frames that your eye has already seen. To ensure 60fps, the first frame is displayed three times and the second frame 2 times. This 3:2 pulldown occurs because alter- nating frames are not repeated in a consistent manner. Judder influences the sense of pres- ence and the ability to interact with the con- tent in real time. Motion sickness as a variable can be eval- uated using pre- and post symptom reporting through administration of the Simulator Sick- ness Questionnaire (SSQ) (Kennedy and Fowl- kes, 1992). This is mentioned as a component of sensory perceptions, whereby the partici- pant’s perception is that a simulation is so real that motion sickness could be induced. Google Cardboard Two further notes on the consideration of variables and attributes of the VR headset and fulldome are worth mentioning. Considering the virtual reality headset, this tool affords user participation as a single user experience or single virtual environment, whereas full- dome affords a collaborative environment, or collaborative virtual environment. Statement of the problem and context In the US, post-colonial European pedagog- ic tradition influences teaching. Traditional western education is focused on analysis and deconstruction of information to gain un- derstanding (Dieleman and Huisingh, 2008). This tradition leads to student achievement in science for only a narrow demographic of the population (Armstrong, Henson, & Sav- age, 2001). Free choice, as well as project-based Oculus Rift March 2016 Planetarian 25 Planetarium Research fine and encourage science learning in many A simulation is defined as a form of expe- contexts, as well as encourage life long science riential learning. In the simulated environ- learning. Research in ISE achieves legitimate ment of a planetarium students can experi- The topic of alternative technologies and status with funding by the National Science ence phenomena that are difficult to explain learning is timely because a diverse science Foundation’s program of competitive grants. in the traditional classroom using a textbook. community provides better prospective on is- The Center for Advancement of Informal Sci- Unlike a text the simulated planetarium en- sues, provides a broader insight to solution seek- ence Education is yet another support agen- vironment can be manipulated. The param- ing, and enables more creative problem solving cy that provides resources and recognition for eters of the environment represent a reality (Arora, 2014; Boas, 2013). When contributing the ISE community. within which students interact to promote to the general body of knowledge surround- The academic community, recognizing the learning of a particular concept. The simula- ing the topic, it is helpful to isolate and exam- function and role of ISE in the general scheme tion looks and sounds real and leads to a dif- ine barriers that underserved groups perceive as of science education research, maintains a ferent understanding by the learner. Thus a impediments to pursuing science careers. strand for presentations and papers dedicat- simulated learning experience impacts the One of these barriers could be tradition- ed to ISE at the National Association for Re- teaching and learning of science and facili- al classroom teaching and learning. In ob- search in Science Teaching annual confer- tates differentiated instruction to meet di- serving venues of informal science educa- ence. ISE is a way our society recognizes and verse needs and diverse populations (Smetana tion throughout the US and other countries, supports the importance of science (Falk, Ran- & Bell, 2012). Simulations are useful to address the line between entertainment and educa- dol, & Dierking, 2012). learning needs thus giving all students an op- tion varies. For example, when patrons vis- Considering the niche that informal sci- portunity to learn in an environment differ- it a planetarium, are they making this visit to ence occupies in teaching and learning, it ent from a workbook and pencil based class- find entertainment, in order to educate or in- is helpful to consider how this setting can room experience. form themselves on a topic, or a combination bridge the gap between students’ interest in of these variables? What is the purpose of the doing school science and in doing science in Variables simulated environment as part of the built en- an informal and non-assessed setting. VR headset simulation technology can be vironment? Can these lines be blurred and are Students choosing to study formal STEM transported to science education classrooms there other emerging technologies that can subjects in grades K-12 and higher historical- and used as a “virtual field trip” for students. create the simulations that exist in a planetar- ly come from a fairly narrow demograph- Implications include the ability to bring the ium building that can be more portable, nim- ic (Leggon, 2006). According to Aikenhead simulation to the students, as opposed to the ble or adaptable? (2002), under-representation of people in ca- students coming to a bricks and motor plane- The ability to take a simulation into a tradi- reers related to science is a situation that aris- tarium and sampling the simulation “in situ.” tional classroom is one possibility that affords es from colonial science education pedagogy. Requests for a planetarian to come to the class- the opportunity to reach all learners. It is not A Western scientific perspective is congruent room occur more frequently as school bud- the point to demonstrate a superior beneficial with the current, but changing, world scien- get cuts and administrative paperwork make effect of one tool over the other, but rather to tific view. field trips less practical. Traditional options leverage these affordances in order to deliver However, this perspective may seem like a for school visits consist of a portable planetar- instructional content (Schrader, 2008). foreign culture to the student who does not ium brought to a school and set up in a school Looking at emerging technologies to teach have a culture of Western scientific thinking. gym or parking lot to give students a simulat- science literacy and to engage students is of This factor can be overcome with the creation ed experience of the stars and planets. interest to the ISE community; their raison of the third space in which diverse cultures Use of VR as a simulation to promote learn- d’etre centers on the patron experience. ISE in- bring their tradition of science to the larger fo- ing in science is at the developing stages. In- stitutions have “special roles, responsibilities rum. Part of the appeal of informal science is vestigation of this tool offers an opportuni- and opportunities in the nation’s education- the creation of this third space as a divergence ty to bring the planetarium to the school in a al enterprise to engage and educate the public from traditional science teaching and learn- more portable form. VR offers possibilities for about science, the scientific process, and the ing, thus creating possibilities for non-tradi- students in remote geographic locations to ex- lives of scientists” (Brisson, Eisenkraft, Flatow, tional students to engage in the sciences. perience what was formerly only possible on Friedman, Kirsch, Macdonald, Marshall, Mc- One tool under consideration in this study, a field trip to the planetarium. Callie, Nesbit, Prosino, Petit, Schubel, Traill, the VR headset, could offer this third space Variables include sensory perception, phys- Wharton, Williams & Witte, 2010, p 14). In this and bridge the boundary between tradition- ical manipulability, and interaction quality regard, a multimedia solution to the question al science consumption and something that and are tested both within the two simulation is novel and could have implications for the is interactive and responsive to learner needs. environments as well as using paper and pen- practice of how to deliver instruction to reach According to Dede, Salzman and Loftin (1996), cil responses and videotape capture. Sensory learners from a broader demographic than the complex, abstract material once considered perception is defined as the taking of infor- traditional STEM student. too difficult for many students can now be mation with the senses into the brain for pro- Research in patron participation and satis- mastered when paced and presented in a cessing and the resulting perception from this faction is of interest because students may ex- hands-on inquiry setting with students hav- intake. Physical manipulability is the control perience the world of science in the informal ing choice over their learning. A planetarium a participant has over the tool and includes sphere differently than they experience it in is just such a venue and uses simulations to things such as rotation, movement, manipula- the formal system of education. Since ISE is teach science, mainly astronomy (Plummer, tion of the software and physical movement. free choice and not assessed, the student can 2008, Lanz, 2011). However, a planetarium can Interaction quality refers to the degree of pres- experience science without the pressure of do- be used for teaching other subjects, just as VR ence each tool affords. ing science in a mandatory and assessed envi- headsets can be used to simulate various sub- ronment common in more formal settings. jects. Simulations of this type are examined in Research question The National Science Teachers Association this study to determine their use and level of Understanding the impact of two the tech- has created a position statement on ISE to de- engagement for diverse populations. nologies, fulldome planetarium software and 26 Planetarian March 2016 VR headsets, and how they are leveraged to ing style and motivation were checked due to VR headsets in the split eye immersive intent. influence conceptual change when study- the volunteer nature of participant selection. VR headset tools may be a way to deliver sim- ing science, is the main question asked. Since ulation to a classroom similar to the evolu- there is a paucity of research on the technolo- Research Context tion from mainframe computers to personal gies identified, the terms “conceptual change,” This study builds on earlier work done computers and then tablets and laptops. This “simulations,” and “virtual reality” were the with VR headsets for student understanding affords the ability to bring the simulation to search items used in gathering background lit- of concepts in science (Winn, 1997). Phenom- the learner. erature. enography is one of the methodological lens- Interest in teaching using simulations and Science education research and ISE are the es that frame the study. Phenomenography simulated environments and the idea of real- lenses that frame the investigation. The role is concerned with the relationships that peo- istically reproducing the sky in detail result- that emerging technologies, such as VR head- ple have with the world around them (Orgill, ed in the creation of the first planetarium in sets, play into the questions raised about not 2007; Marton, 1986). Participants experience Jena, Germany. This device, created by Max only education versus entertainment, but also the phenomenon of reality using a VR head- Wolf and Carl Zeiss in the early 20th century, questions of scale, purpose, access, and learn- set and fulldome simulation in a planetarium. reproduced not only stars but also planetary ing under simulated conditions. For teachers, Choice of multimedia tools selected was for motions. The purpose of this invention was the use of these simulations tools can involve convenience and the opportunity to explore to simulate the complex movements of the not only under-represented groups and low the affordances and constraints of new mul- planets and stars to further understand their achieving students, but also English-language learners. The reduced cognitive load afforded by these devices can assist to guide meaning making (Smetana & Bell, 2012). As a result, the purpose of this research is to examine a treat- ment used with both a VR headset simulation Figure 1. Screen shot of and a fulldome planetarium simulation soft- Oculus Rift ware system to assess the constraints and af- Development fordances of these two tools. Kit 1 software castle interior. Method Participants for this study self selected from CIT 780 Multimedia Learning Studio, a gradu- ate course taught at a large research university in the desert southwest. An email request was sent to all class members via the online learn- ing management system used to augment class teaching and a sample of convenience was achieved. Participants were between the ages of 36 and 55 and reported a propensity to play com- puter games such as turn-base strategy games, first person shooter games, and online role- playing games. Participants met at a planetarium, where they completed two different preliminary timedia. Both tools were selected as the latest movements and to teach celestial naviga- data sheets. They were then shown a specif- versions available at the time of testing. Tools tion. Planetariums are useful in teaching stu- ic 15-minute section of the planetarium pre- examined were the Digistar 5 Fulldome Plan- dents complex concepts in astronomy such as sentation Natural Selection taken from the first etarium System and the Oculus Rift Develop- moon phases and the procession of the earth third of the program on Charles Darwin and ment kit 1 and 2 VR headset. on its axis. the origin of species. This section presents the For purposes of this review, fulldome is de- With this history in mind, the simulated HMS Beagle under sail to the Galapogos Is- fined as, “some means—from single fisheye environment of the night sky is reproduced in lands. After viewing the simulation the par- projectors through to multiple video projec- the planetarium dome. Thinking of this evo- ticipants completed a seven point Likert-type tors blended together—to project an image lution in terms of the development of com- survey, and then were invited to experience across the entire dome, and a powerful com- puter technology, how can parallels to plan- the Oculus Rift. Each participant had the tool puter system that either plays back video etariums be drawn by the investigation of an calibrated and then viewed a castle interior images pulled from hard drives or produces alternative technology, for example the vir- taken from the Oculus Rift Development Kit images in real time” (Barnett, 2006, p. 11). Ac- tual reality headset? If a planetarium envi- 1 World Demo software. This treatment was cording to Lantz (2011), immersive visualiza- ronment can be used to teach for conceptu- videotaped. After each participant used the tion allows students to achieve since the tool al change, is the technology for simulations VR headset for 10-15 minutes, they completed helps them learn in their zone of proximal de- evolving to the point where a smaller and another seven point Likert-type survey. velopment. more portable technology could be adapted? One salient variable manipulated through The decision to examine these simulation Could this adaption be used to reach a more pre-screening selection of study participants tools came from the research question roots remote audience or perhaps be transported to was learning style. Motivation was another of designing instruction for all learners. The the audience instead of the audience coming variable adjusted for by pre-screening. Learn- fulldome system is place based, but similar to to the venue? March 2016 Planetarian 27 Planetarium Research sults, as the treatment occurred during one environment was only a simulation. VR head- hour of treatment time on one date. The con- sets need hand and feet sensors to ameliorate According to Taylor (1997), these “museums founded rival explanation that may have af- the surprise of being in the simulated environ- of the real” (p. 185) afforded by the immer- fected the data outcome could be the effect ment without sense of body. sive three-dimensional VR environment cre- of testing; the novelty of participating in a Question number three dealt with the “split ate a third space that is inclusive to a broad- study may be enough to skew results as first screen effect” of both VR and Digistar 51. Since er demographic. These spaces afford the user time participants may have been trying hard both tools use two screens that are blended, a degree of exploration that traditional pen- to please the researcher. participants rated that split screen effect was cil, paper, and book learning lack. Student’s (1.25). In VR the split screen was noticed, but attitudes toward VR in the educational envi- Data sources not in Digistar 5. Latency was reported in ques- ronment with its highly interactive comput- Data was collected using four data collec- tion number four as (1) across all areas with er-based world experienced through the sens- tion instruments. First, a demographics ques- comments reporting no latency. Persistence es affords the ability to do more as well, as tionnaire was completed by participants. was reported in question number five as (2) af- achieve a greater degree of control and choice This gathered information on the date, time, ter doing an average of all reported scores. through use of the tool (Mikropoulos, Chalki- and place of the treatment. Age, gender, eth- Comments include Digistar 5 as less real in dis, Katsiskis & Emvolotis, 1998). nicity, and nationality information were col- the simulation than the VR headset. The final Can VR headsets create the simulations that lected using a paper and pencil questionnaire. question, asked to rate this as a content deliv- exist in a planetarium to teach astronomical Detailed questions ery tool, participants report (1.75) as an aver- include occupation age with comments reporting that Digistar 5 and training, dura- was too slow to deliver effective content with tion of occupation, the VR headset having the participant more and description of in control of the tool. position or occu- Video analysis reveals the spontaneous pation. This instru- comments of participants using the VRH. No ment was acquired video analysis was done in the fulldome envi- through the Na- ronment. Comments by participants indicate tional Institute for the reporting of objects within the simulated Health Research. castle environment and identification of ob- Background data jects in the simulation. was collected to in- form the study on Discussion the prior experience Participants experienced the phenomenon participants have of the Digistar 5 simulation in group and the with computer Oculus Rift simulation individually. With- games, simulations, in both of these simulation tools data re- The dual projectors of the Planetarium at the College of Southern Nevada’s immersive environ- veal that the VR headset and fulldome afford Digistar 5 system. Courtesy of Andrew Kerr. ments, and comfort both similar as well as constrained conditions. and skill with tech- VR is a tool that affords the ability of the user nology using a cre- to manipulate and interact with and with- concepts? Both these tools are simulations. A ated instrument. in the simulation, but is constrained a single simulation is a type of immersive environ- Two seven point Likert scaled response viewer experience with manipulation, rota- ment. This affords the opportunity to create sheets were created using the research of Vogt tion, interaction, and presence as valuable af- environments away from the physical lim- (1999). These were post survey data sheets with fordances. itations of a planetarium museum. If the im- created questions to be used after the Digistar Fulldome is less immersive from the data mersions of VR promote learning the same 5 treatment and then the Oculus Rift Devel- revealed through the preliminary treatment way as a planetarium, implications to im- opment Kit 1 treatment. Each post survey in- group. The constraints of this tool include pact the learning of more students are pos- cluded six questions on a 1-7 scale with 1 as ex- the inability to manipulate the treatment sible. The mobility that VR affords compels cellent and 7 as unacceptable. Each sheet had by the user. The treatment chosen to evalu- the researcher to embark on this study. A VR room for written comments. ate this tool was static, however; further re- headset provides an affordance of portability search could include more participation in- to bring a planetarium experience to remote Results teraction and manipulation of other features places or to schools that are transportation The usability analysis of these tools in- of fulldome as well as more interaction with challenged and cannot take the students on a cludes analysis of the post-survey data tools. the participants. Affordances of the tool in- field trip. Survey question one, on comfort level of the clude the collaborative virtual environment, device, both physical and spatial reported ex- which makes teaching and learning less indi- Design cellent (1) between both tools with no feelings vidual but gives more economy of scale. Qualitative research was done using the of discomfort. Question two asked about pres- Sensory perception was reported by partic- one-group pretest-posttest design of Camp- ence. Results revealed an average of (2) with ipants as similar in both tools with the excep- bell and Stanley (1963) with some modifica- comments on Digistar 5 that the simulation tion of the ability to manipulate, rotate, and tion. This design is used widely in education- was no different than a movie on a flat screen. move within the environment of VR. While al research and is a form of quasi-experimental For VR headset the disconnect of being in the interactive quality was a different experience that is appropriate for this preliminary re- environment but not being able to see your (Continues on page 38) search. Uncontrolled rival hypotheses of his- feet or hands while using the headset provid- 1 The fulldome system used for this study operates tory and maturation do not confound the re- ed a grounding telling the participant that the two projectors across a 30-ft dome theater. 28 Planetarian March 2016 March 2016 Planetarian 29 Cloud Library Ad Q1.indd 1 1/26/2016 6:10:39 PM Planetariums in the era of VR Audiences bring with them their bodies’ multi-sensory connections Abstract This paper describes perceptual aspects addressed by virtual and augmented reality applications, and how these medi- ums reflect on the planetarium dome experience. Spatially speaking, human senses are not equal in terms of distance, and vision is the only sense capable of escaping Earth’s atmosphere. Telescopes extend our vision even further. Virtual reality (VR) and other experiential configurations are spreading into public consciousness through interactive and mobile applications, which experiment with spatial and temporal abstractions. In this context, astronomical data that lies beyond human perception needs to be scaled to what we can experience with our body, creating a virtual model that is real, yet can never be realistic. Understanding the capabilities and vocabulary of the human body, accumulated by living in the real world, and how the different senses come together in perception and meaning, is part of artists’ research. An artist’s research being part of astronomy visualization development in the planetarium dome further strengthens our connection to the universe. Julieta Aguilera rich devices. We can think of early planetari- University of Hawaii at Hilo um shows as being informed or conditioned Imiloa Astronomy Center by film media, while today’s shows are condi- Hilo, Hawaii 96720 tioned by mobile and gaming devices. What is this immersive media that is differ- julietina@me.com ent from film media? The design of immer- sion evokes the natural world because we are immersed in the world and have a point of view of our own. In the past, murals provided a sense of immersion into a static image with Introduction Planetariums and immersive a fixed point of view. Today large displays, Planetarium fulldome experiences have media planetariums, or head-mounted displays like the Oculus do that. been the referent of immersion for almost a The context of planetarium media expe- In the past, dioramas and stereo viewers century, and virtual tours have taken genera- riences is rapidly evolving, along with tech- provided visual depth. Today, several visual tions of people on journeys transcending time nical, biological, and philosophical develop- cues in computer graphics, that may or may and space. However immersive, fulldome ments. These unique dome spaces have held not use stereoscopy, enhance visual depth. shows do not afford many aspects of VR. I their ground well and have remained essen- In the past, the presenter in the planetar- will first describe these distinctions. Then I tially the same for decades, although making ium rotated the celestial sphere at different will discuss how fulldome systems are nested it possible over time to not only look at outer speeds with a group of people, and pointed at in exhibition galleries that contextualize the space but move through space. constellations. Today, we have graphical rep- planetarium experience in terms of science Whereas film theaters show a movie in resentations of ourselves we call avatars (the and even interaction. which viewers are passive and paralyzed (ex- word for incarnations of aspects of beings in Furthermore, people who visit planetari- cept for eye motion) as they listen to a record- the world) that are free to roam about. ums are primed by mobile devices as well as ing, in planetarium shows—the “hard core” In the past, we had optical illusions, and stat- gaming systems to engage with visuals in ac- ones—there is a live person navigating what ic perspective drawing to make paintings look tive embodied ways. I will describe how the you see by looking around. The situation is like windows to actual 3D spaces. Today we body and its multi-sensory connections shape similar to being driven in a car, although you have various means to track the movement of space and can be choreographed to communi- mostly look ahead for understanding where a person, from the gyroscope in our phones, to cate abstract data. you are going. In some cases, the camera (the skeleton tracking. While not all these capabil- Third, I will explain what I see as the role of whole view, or “the car,” metaphorically ities are afforded by a planetarium dome, and the artist in using aspects of VR to modulate speaking) turns for you. a dome projection is certainly not a VR envi- spatial perception in scientific visualizations. This collective experience of immersion ronment, the people who come to planetari- To this end, I will comment on three efforts led by a driver or mediated by a virtual char- ums have experienced a virtual immersion I led or contributed to in order to strengthen acter is more accessible today to individu- elsewhere that is closer to natural experience, the understanding of VR aspects in the plane- als through the mobile and gaming devic- and therefore, understand what they see dif- tarium and museum environment. es that we own. This means that the feeling ferently from a person decades ago. Finally, I will offer some insights on the col- of agency, that is, the sense of being actively laborative process of creating planetarium immersed in this changing view, is being con- shows that facilitate the integration of perceptu- ditioned and integrated with natural experi- From a talk presented at the Great Lakes Plane- tarium Association Conference, October 14-17, al, astronomical, and educational contributions. ence by the usage of these mobile and sensor 2015, in Grand Rapids, Michigan, USA. 30 Planetarian March 2016 Media, perception, and scientific visualization Media develops when we can im- prove or create new ways to bet- ter couple our tools to the capabili- ties of the human body. There also is a better understanding of perception The World Made Itself among disciplines that comes into by Miwa Matreyek. play strongly for astronomy. This is Photo credit: Ahrum Hong. Image courtesy of because astronomers are extending the artist. their perception through exquisite devices: telescopes that can capture light at different wavelengths, far out into space, where the sensory stimu- li that puts our experiences together break down at grand spatial and rel- atively slow temporal scales. At our end, astronomy data is being assem- bled in scientific visualizations to fit the range, speed and visual patterns afforded by the human senses. On the other hand, the basic physics that “realistic,” but instead, an abstraction of time ent purpose may fall apart when a person does explained orbital dynamics are today show- and space, since most of the celestial bodies not know how to handle spatial and temporal cased in movies and games to a degree that projected in the dome are not usually visible elements to match the message, like a song out they are trivial, and what was very cumber- or cannot move in the sky that fast. of tune or pace. Forcing a style may result in a vi- some to explain in the past, is now not so, With the advent of digital planetariums sualization that is too loud or too quiet, or even since the perceptual means of the media more there is also the issue that you cannot fly to lacks content because it was oversimplified. precisely match natural experience. planets quickly or see all the planets in the so- Whereas conventions have been used in Fewer and fewer people today are famil- lar system in the same scene at the same time, the past to format data in a neutral manner to iar with conventions inherited from old me- even if you were a giant capable of having this avoid giving the wrong connotations to the dia to compensate for constraints, and in turn, magnificent view. But today, by using domes content, a neutral show may not be a very ex- we have an understanding of what we see as as a scientific research and outreach visualiza- citing experience to deal with. An artist, not if it was responsive or interactive, less like a tion tool, data complexity is increasing be- only in the visual arts but also in music and two-dimensional image and more like a realm yond the need for mere visual recognition dance and the like, understands the biases of with objects in space. Today we are “primed” towards understanding the degree for which the human body and the limits of the senses by movies and games to think of scientific vi- vast spatial and temporal scale variables are to handle attention. sualizations as things that exist in three di- being adjusted for the purpose of enhancing It also is important to emphasize that the mensions, among which we can move and relationships and suit the human body as a human body senses the environment and its act, even if they are flat, static, or passive. structural referent and measuring unit. How qualities, not as individual sensory stimuli but My experience in talking with museum vis- else would be possible to present a simulation as results of overlapping sensory input. Josef itors about scientific visualization is that they of the cosmic web? Albers, who taught color theory at The Bau- are curious about how “real” are these visu- haus in Germany and at Yale University in the alizations. In the one hand, there is the real- Arts in astronomical science United States, knew this: that perception of ity of “real data” and then there is the “real- visualization color changes depending on what colors are istic look” of things when they seem natural. Astrophysicists are looking for patterns in next to it and in what proportion. A visualization of the merger of the Milky their data, and visualization artists perceptu- Distance and speed work much the same Way and Andromeda galaxies, for example, ally explore the data, as they have a better un- way, as architects, filmmakers, and musicians can happen in a few seconds, but in reality, derstanding of the vocabulary we share: the well know. Perhaps scientists can empathize, it would take about seven billion years. Of sensory system that is the body. To this end, sci- knowing how aspects of the data change the course we do not live that long and we cannot entific visualizations need to make sense with- results depending on how the parts are con- discriminate slow change, not even sea tides in the limits of our perception. nected, and the amount of strength with which, relatively speaking, are moving much This is what arts teach. An artist knows how which these parts affect each other. faster than galaxies towards each other in pro- to handle perceptual variables because she or Art explorations that contribute to the un- portion to distance. he understands how an experience will reach derstanding of planetarium experiences and Or consider visualizations of the Milky the senses. Simulations must be spatially and scientific visualization are of great value to Way: spacecraft have barely escaped the temporally paced as to have noticeable parts advance the understanding of current astro- boundary of the sun, which is just one of bil- and beats. nomical and artistic research by the general lions of stars in our galaxy, so the chances of Like a musician who can compose a memora- public. The purpose of a scientific visualiza- having a camera outside of our home galaxy ble song, a person trained in the visual arts can tion is to understand a situation, a set of spa- to take a galactic selfie is pretty unlikely. compose for the eyes, to arrange space so it feels tial and temporal relationships. As an artist Thus, visualizations of the Milky Way are navigable and active in a way that invites a cer- understands the effect of the elements that the product of data other than external pho- tain kind of visual flow and body engagement comprise the experience, and a scientist un- tography. In the same manner, we can think with the content. derstands the data and the underlying phe- of the entire dome having never been strictly Templates or guidelines created for a differ- nomena that need to be looked at, a visu- March 2016 Planetarian 31 Left: LunAR Park by Brenda Lopez Silva, Alex Betts, and Panos Oikono- mou, UIC, NCSA, Columbia University. Below: The image shows what the viewer can see in the tablet through the camera lens with the over- laid lunar roller coaster. Images courtesy of Brenda López-Silva. alization is a point of convergence for the disciplines that further engages the commu- nity in scientific and aesthetic research. building would trigger the appearance of a but shifted the focus to live theater for chil- To expand on aspects of visualization at a space elevator in the middle of the lake. All dren. There are scenes that take advantage of planetarium, I coordinated two art-related these “augments” would appeal to the under- some well-known ways to blur the divide be- events in 2012 and 2014 and also contribut- standing of the three-dimensional structures tween fantasy and reality, particularly pop- ed to gallery and planetarium show develop- of the objects. ular today in video games. In one scene the ment, which I describe at the end of this sec- In Miwa Matreyek’s performance, which dome, which simulates a spacecraft, flies over tion. My goal in bringing arts to the place was merges film and theater, the silhouette of the the moon and viewers are encouraged to to showcase media with immersive character- artist is composed in various scenes where it wave to a 3D-modeled astronaut who is stand- istics and to expose staff and visitors to con- appears to be as large as trees, buildings, or is- ing in the moon’s surface. In another scene, sider how we relate to scientific visualizations lands, and the environment and its characters the actor that plays the tour guide “moves” through perceptual cues. My hope was that react to the artist and its actions (Figure 2). The outside of the dome and his/her animated ver- these experiences would both help focus the silhouette is positioned to be seen from vari- sion does an EVA to unstick a piece of ice from design of shows around human perception ous camera angles, and the artist may lean on the spacecraft. and help free creativity from the constraints the floor to appear as walking from a top view, In these three examples, perceptual ele- of past media. or be supported by chairs on the side of the ments are effectively revised and used to cre- screen showing the top half of the body as if ate experiences that invite viewers, or “per- AR inside and out swimming. The silhouette also appears to be ceivers,” to engage in understanding what One was an exhibition of augmented real- larger or smaller in the screen depending on they see with tactile, auditory, propriocep- ity (AR) objects curated by fellow virtual and the distance of the body to the projector. tive, and all other senses. Even though a group augmented reality artists Todd Margolis and The performance is appealing to planetar- of people are arguably not experiencing VR Tracy Cornish, which was placed inside and ium show development because of the live in the dome because their bodies are not be- around the planetarium building. The oth- person in the environment. It also exploits ing individually tracked and the field of view er event was a live performance by Miwa Ma- camera views and angles from which a pre- is not affected by their individual motion, as- treyek where projections enclosed the live sil- senter could reformulate its relationship to pects of multi-sensory perception can be cine- houette of the artist. space in terms of position, as well as encourag- matographically evoked as they are in games. AR, which is a mobile way to place infor- ing us to revise ways to present body scale in Ways to engage the body and give a sense mation in the environment where the user the context of objects in the universe. of agency and presence can be explored via is, brings up an important aspect of the full- I also participated in a few development the concept of avatars, pointers, or dynamic dome experience, which is to have your body sessions for the Cosmology Gallery “The Uni- objects in space such as planets, stars, or galax- in the same space as the data. In the AR exhibi- verse: A Walk Through Space And Time and ies. In the end, a goal is to balance the relation- tion, visitors to the building could find objects the planetarium show Destination Solar Sys- ships and roles of these objects as they appear and movies located in its galleries by point- tem (DSS). The Cosmology Gallery integrated to share the virtual space of the dome with ing their mobile devices at exhibition items. aspects on immersion in a Kinect-based floor the familiarity afforded by VR media that They also could take the experience outside interactive covering three stages of the evolu- viewers have experienced before going to the by finding markers outside. tion of the universe, from quarks to star life- planetarium. For example, a 1940 model of the moon cycles and galactic structure, as well as large would appear to have a gravity-specific roll- projection installations allowing visitors to Conclusion er coaster that you could observe from differ- be immersed in imagery from vast different In summary, planetariums have been the ent angles (as in Figure1), a cosmic ray detec- scales. collective immersive and realtime interac- tor would trigger animations of solar flares, DSS reused many beautiful visualizations tion referent for the past century, and are in- or looking to the north side of the museum produced for a different solar system show, formed today by mobile and gaming modes 32 Planetarian March 2016 of immersion and interaction. In turn, im- together in representation, which is the re- 2005 (pp. 641-652). International Society for mersion and interaction can engage the hu- search of the artist. Optics and Photonics. man perceptual system more fully to reflect Johnson, M. (1987). The Body in the Mind. Chi- vast temporal and spatial scales, and thus ben- References cago: University of Chicago Press. efit from a deeper collaboration among disci- Aguilera, J. (2012). A categorization of synthet- Litchy, P., Aguilera, J. (2012). A report on Moon plines, including those developed for the pur- ic experiences. Technoetic Arts, 10 (2-3), 255- Lust: An Augmented Reality Art Exhibi- pose of scientific visualization in research 260. tion at the Adler Planetarium in Chicago. and outreach. Artworks that expand the un- Aguilera-Rodríguez, J. (2013). To embody the Retrieved from median.newmediacaucus. derstanding of how perception relates to rep- n-body: spatial perception utilized in large- org/blog/current-issue-fall-2012-v-08-n-02- resentation are a valuable way to engage au- scale visualizations. In Universal Access in december-2nd-2012/a-report-on-moon- diences in the development process for new Human-Computer Interaction. User and Con- lust-an-augmented-reality-art-exhibition- planetarium experiences. text Diversity (pp. 537-546). Springer Berlin at-the-adler-planetarium-in-chicago-june- Understanding how devices fit our sens- Heidelberg. through-august-2012/ Aguilera, J. C. (2014, February). Museum as Matreyek, M. (2013). This World Made It- es in VR and other hybrid immersive experi- spacecraft: a building in virtual space. In self. Retrieved from www.semihemisphere. ences, and how the senses interact with each IS&T/SPIE Electronic Imaging (pp. 90120D- com/#/thisworldmadeitself/ other individually and collectively, will help 90120D). International Society for Optics Uexküll, J.von (1934). A stroll through the us address the interesting challenges ahead and Photonics. worlds of animals and men. In C. H. Schiller that planetarium domes, as collective immer- Albers, J., 1975. Interaction of Color. Yale Univer- (Ed.), Instinctive behavior: The development sion, face, not just by being fascinated and im- sity Press, New Haven. of a modern concept. New York: Internation- pressed, but by making the experience part of Cruz-Neira, C., Sandin, D. J., DeFanti, T. A., Ken- al Universities Press. the thinking process to understand the visu- yon, R. V., & Hart, J. C. (1992). The CAVE: au- Wilson, M. (2002). Six views of embodied cog- alizations that present to us the universe, ex- dio visual experience automatic virtual en- nition. Psychonomic Bulletin and Review, 9, pressed in the device of an extended body. vironment. Communications of the ACM, 625-636. I The development of immersive visualiza- 35(6), 64-72. tion devices have painfully dissected human Damasio, A. (2010). Self comes to mind: Con- Julieta Aguilera, artist, electronic visualiza- perception, and constrained sensory input to tion and design educator, worked at the Adler structing the Conscious Brain. New York: sometimes neutral and over-formatted prod- Planetarium for the past 8 years as associate Pantheon. Kindle Edition. director of the Space Visualization Laborato- ucts. Understanding the priming influence Dolinsky, M., Anstey, J., Pape, D. E., Aguilera, ry. She is currently art faculty at University of that VR, in its multi-sensory approach, is caus- J. C., Kostis, H. N., & Tsoupikova, D. (2005, Hawaii at Hilo, and staff at Imiloa Astronomy ing to planetarium experiences, brings up the March). Collaborative virtual environ- Center. She is passionate about large scales of knowledge of how senses and thought come ments art exhibition. In Electronic Imaging space and higher dimensions. March 2016 Planetarian 33 What is 3D Immersive Sound? Simply X, Y, Z . . . and W Above. In Columbus, Ohio, MorrowSound created a serene setting for healing at the Nationwide Children’s Hospital. Among giant trees and forest friends filling the Magic Forest, anyone sitting in the new For the IPS Immersive Audio Committee waiting room will be surrounded by sounds Charles Morrow of distant birds, wild animals and even the occasional cricket. Barton, Vermont 05822 USA The Aviary has dozens of colorful birds and cm@cmorrow.com colorful sonic flight patterns. Birds are heard taking off from the ground and flying over- head. This Aviary has the peaceful sound of a river that flows through the hallway. We live in a world of 3D immersive sound, in darkness and in light, in all directions, as “Our 3D soundscape is always changing. the world of the x, y, and z dimensions. 3D is a matter of survival—eat or become a meal. As the sounds of a natural forest change how we understand our environment. Our Hence a fourth coordinate, W, the location throughout the day, so does the Magic For- brains interpret what reaches our ears, en- of the listener. In media production we create est. Mornings are calm while afternoons are hanced by the geometry of our heads and ear points of view where we invent and move W. full of life. There are even sounds of crickets and frogs at night.” lobes. We memorize and identify sounds of loca- The sounds of birds and animals are produced Always open and active, even in sleep, our tions and things on a continuous basis from at random, which means no two days are ears hear from low rumbles, augmented by early in our growth as a fetus. We hear while alike. There is a unique experience for spring, our bodies, to high whistles. inside our mothers, surrounded by fluid summer, autumn, and winter. No matter what day of the year you visit the Children's Hospi- Seeing is quite different, with a range of which constantly transmits vibrations to all tal, you will experience the most vivid depic- light, color, shape, and depth perception. Eyes surfaces of our evolving fetal form. After our tion of the outdoors. open and close. Ears never do. births, we become expert in 3D hearing and Photo by Maija-Leena Remes Humans are designed to detect motion, (Continues on page 36) 34 Planetarian March 2016 1_IQAd_Sharp.pdf 1 1/28/16 11:47 AM sharp: .. adjective \ sharp \ 1. keen in intellect, perception; smart 2. clear in detail, high visual resolution, “A ‘sharp’ projected image” C M Y CM MY CY CMY K TM affordable high resolution projection systems SciDome “IQ”, Finally, a smarter choice for fulldome projection systems. Introducing affordable high-resolution fulldome projection systems designed and priced for educators. 2400 2560 4 * *what’s your IQ? March 2016 Planetarian 35 2_IQAd_Bright.pdf 1 1/28/16 11:48 AM (Immersive sound, continued from page 34) bright: adjective \ brit \ 1. producing a lot of light, having a strong color sound localization in all environments. 2. unusually intelligent, smart, able to learn quickly, “A ‘bright’ idea” Present life blends the real and the virtu- al, the home and work place, the built with the natural world. With sensations we now shape the real and virtual spaces we inhabit and share. How is immersive sound useful? Mono, stereo, and surround sound record- ing primarily mediate this 3D world as an ad- junct to movies and frontal entertainment. Electronic 3D immersive sound is much more. It is a hot topic these days, as a quick Google search will prove. In IPS workshops and on web pages, we will explore immersive sound listening and pro- duction, immersive sound systems and their integration with projection systems. We will talk about acoustics and explore so- lutions over history and the present. We will Using the dome, inside and out specifically address acoustics of domes and While the Zeiss-Grossplanetarium Berlin is under renovation we seek for new ways to communicate our mission. The planetarium opened in 1987 as one of the last GDR construction projects. We aim to build planetarium furniture, wall and dome treat- upon our legacy, and while at the same time we introduce state-of-the-art technology on the inside with ments. a new Zeiss IX Universarium, 8k Velvet fulldome-projection, and Atmosphea-3D-sound, we are using the Immersive Sound 101 will be presented on outside and looking at installing four projectors to offer video artists and mapping wizards a public and two levels: iconic venue to work with. Besides others, the outside of the dome has been transformed into a Star Wars • As information for presenters and buyers, death star. Photo courtesy Tim Florian Horn, Leiter Zeiss-Großplanetarium, Berlin. producers and educators. C • As training for hands-on production. We finitely shapeable to fit installations at plan- of an expanded space where sound moves up, are working to get course credits for that. etariums, museums, galleries, stadiums, hospi- down and around. M tals, homes, anywhere. Morrow works and lives with his partner Y A total envelope of sound 3D algorithms can transform mono, stereo, Maija-Leena Remes, a translator and writer, in Immersive 3D sound, projected from above and flat-plane surround sound (5.1, 6.1, 7.1) into Helsinki, Finland and Barton, Vermont. I CM and below the listening plane, forms a total expanded into immersive 3D sound experi- MY envelope. It creates a strong entrancement so ences. CY that we believe we are actually in the virtu- It also is possible for old shows in ste- Take part in a solstice al 3D location. reo and surround can be transformed into celebration CMY Unlike surround and quadraphonic for- exciting new 3D versions of the shows. Another project that Charlie Mor- K mats, 3D is not just on the ear-level listening row is working on is Solstice 2016, a 24- plane. Because of its use of the up/down z axis, Meet Charlie Morrow hour celebration the day when the Earth 3D has greater dramatic possibilities than oth- New chair of the IPS Immersive Audio seems to stand still. (solstice2016.com) ”The solstice is recognizable in ev- er formats, and its own set of rules, owing to Committee, Morrow is passionate about us- ery part of the Earth, and that’s how we no fixed front and back. ing sound and music to inspire, entertain, and will celebrate. We will start at 5 pm on Immersive sound systems in planetariums even heal. He is an acclaimed multimedia art- June 21 at the International Date Line, require planning and installation, as well as in- ist, producer, and composer. He is a leading fig- and move one hour at a time around the tegration with the show systems. That makes ure in branded sound and advocate for the use Earth.” TM immersive program production a new skillset of sound for well-being. There will be participation by Arctic to be learned, often learning to work off-line Throughout his career, Morrow has sought communities; sounds of the Earth; in- and then bringing it into the dome. to bring experimental sound and music to a digenous poetry and international poet- In addition 3D sound is scalable, allowing wider audience. His works have ranged from ry curated by poets Jerome Rothenberg you to produce the soundtrack for an Ocu- massive free public events, such as “Toot’N and Bob Holman; musical celebrations in affordable high resolution projection systems all sorts of locations, and, through the lus or other head-mounted virtual device, and Blink” for Chicago’s Lake Michigan and “Fan- cooperation of the International Plane- then fit the dome. fare in the Air” for New York Harbor, to inno- tarium Society, events in planetariums The 3D experience can include such things vative installations for the world’s leading in- around the globe, beginning with the as a virtual motorcycle driving through you, stitutions, including Kennedy Space Center, 500-year celebration of Copernicus in Here’s a brilliant idea - SciDome “IQ”: bright, high resolution, affordable or being in the middle of a orchestra. We can Empire State Building, and the American Mu- Warsaw, Poland. ”We invite participa- fulldome projection systems designed and priced for educational planetariums produce the illusion of something banging seum of Natural History. tion in this event from locales around the from under the planetarium floor or on the Taking sound to the next level, Morrow world,” Morrow said. outside of the shell. most recently created MorrowSound®, a Some events will be prerecorded and Some 3D sound is heard inside the listener’s state-of-the-art technology at the forefront of some streamed live, all mixed together in head, offering an additional flavor. the rapidly-expanding field of 3D sound. The the solstice2016.com web site. You can follow the show wherever you are on the * A 3D sound work can be scaled to different first technology to use a real sound source, 2400 2560 4 planet live, and all of the material will re- sizes. The master sound assembly shaped in MorrowSound projects sound above and be- main on the web after the event. I the studio where it is created and mixed, is in- low the listening plane, creating the illusion *what’s your IQ? 36 Planetarian March 2016 2_IQAd_Bright.pdf 1 1/28/16 11:48 AM bright: adjective \ brit \ 1. producing a lot of light, having a strong color 2. unusually intelligent, smart, able to learn quickly, “A ‘bright’ idea” C M Y CM MY CY CMY K TM affordable high resolution projection systems Here’s a brilliant idea - SciDome “IQ”: bright, high resolution, affordable fulldome projection systems designed and priced for educational planetariums * 2400 2560 4 *what’s your IQ? March 2016 Planetarian 37 (Simulations, continued from page 28) Education. cational communications and technology (pp. for these tools, the participant-controlled in- Campbell, D. T., & Stanley, J. C. (1963). Experi- 457-487). New York: Macmillan. teraction gives the affordance of inquiry con- mental and quasi-experimental designs for re- Mikropoulos, T. A., Chalkidis, A., Katsikis, A. & tent delivery to the VR headset in a way that is search on teaching. American Educational Emvalotis, A. (1998). Students’ attitudes to- more participant based than fulldome. Research Association. wards educational virtual environments. Cobb, S. & Fraser, D. S. (2005). Multimedia Education and Information Technologies. 3 Conclusions and further research learning in virtual reality. In Mayer, R. E. 137-148. directions (Ed.). (2005). The Cambridge handbook of Orgill, M. K., (2007). Phenomenography. In Further research is required to answer multimedia learning. Cambridge Universi- Bodner, G. M. & Orgill, M. K. (Eds.). (2007). the question on whether or to the degree to ty Press. Theoretical frameworks for research in chem- which science is learned through these two Collier, R. (2010). Pre-College Science Educator istry/science education. Prentice Hall Series tools. This research was able to determine Program. Nevada NASA Space Grant Consor- in Educational Innovation. preliminary affordances and constraints of tium, A Look at 2010, 7. Perin, S. M. (2011). Planetarium program im- both tools. The possibility for simulation to Crosier, J. K., Cobb, S., & Wilson, J. R. (2002). proves young students’ understanding of increase engagement in STEM for all learn- Key lessons for the design and integration celestial motion: An ISE research brief dis- ers and thus increase the demographic of stu- of virtual environments in secondary sci- cussing Plummer’s, “Early elementary stu- dents studying science fields is a question for ence. Computers & Education, 38 (1), 77-94. dents’ development of astronomy concepts further consideration. Dede, C., Salzman, M. C., & Loftin, R. B. (1996, in the planetarium”. Retrieved from www. Additional research directions include ex- March). ScienceSpace: Virtual realities for relatingresearchtopractice.org/article/190. ploration of the affordances provided by each learning complex and abstract scientific Plummer, J. D. (2009). Early elementary stu- tool to explore situations that are difficult to concepts. In Virtual Reality Annual Inter- dents’ development of astronomy concepts reproduce in the traditional classroom. For ex- national Symposium, 1996. Proceedings of in the planetarium. Journal of Research in ample, lessons involving toxic chemicals or the IEEE 1996 (pp. 246-252). IEEE. Science Teaching. 46 (2), 192-209. radioactive materials can be taught safely us- Dieleman, H. and Huisingh, D. (2006). Games Reeves. B. (1991). “Being there”: Television as ing simulations. Simulations also lend them- by which to learn and teach about sustain- symbolic versus natural experience. Un- selves to time-lapse manipulation, or teaching able development: Exploring the relevance published manuscript, Institute for Com- content that involves great distances or travel of games and experiential learning for sus- munication Research, Stanford University, to other hemispheres. tainability. Journal of Cleaner Production, 14 Stanford, CA. As further research on these tools goes for- (9-11), 837-847. Reid, D. (2002). Virtual reality and the person-envi- ward, more in-depth data collection as well as Fabricatore, C. and López, X. (2012). Sustain- ronment experience. CyberPsychology & Behav- a more fully-developed qualitative research ability Learning through Gaming: An Ex- ior. 5. 559-564. doi: 10.1089/109493102321018204 methods could reveal more information to ploratory Study. Electronic Journal of e-learn- Rheingold, H. (1991). Virtual reality. New York: evaluate these tools. The process of qualitative ing, 10 (2), 209-222. Summit Books. research grounded theory using larger data Falk, J. H., Randol, S., & Dierking, L. D. (2012). Schloerb, D. W. (1995). A quantitative measure sets and more participants could continue the Mapping the informal science education of telepresence. Presence: Teleoperators and preliminary findings of the research. landscape: An exploratory study. Public Un- Virtual Environments 4, 64-80. derstanding of Science, 21 (7), 865-874. Schrader, P. G. (2008). Learning in technolo- References Iribe, B. (2014, March 19). Re: Announcing the gy: Reconceptualizing immersive environ- Aikenhead, G. S. (2002). Cross-cultural science Oculus Rift Development Kit 2 (DK2) (Web ments. AACE Journal. 16 (4) 457-475. teaching: “rekindling traditions” for aborig- log post). Retrieved from www.oculusvr. Slater, M., & Usoh, M. (1993). Representations inal students. Canadian Journal of Science, com/blog/announcing-the-oculus-rift- systems, perceptual position, and pres- Mathematics and Technology Education, 2 development-kit-2-dk2 ence in immersive virtual environments. (3), 287-304. Kasper, K. (2014) Virtual Reality Head- Presence: Teleoperators and Virtual Environ- Armstrong, D. G., Henson, K. T., & Savage, T. V. set. Retrieval date March 27, 2014. www. ments, 2, 221-233. (2001). Teaching today. An Introduction to virtualrealityheadset.com/index.php Smetana, L. K. & Bell, R. L. (2012). Computer Education, 6. Kennedy, R. S., & Fowlkes, J. E. (1992) Simula- Simulations to Support Science Instruction Arora, T. (2014, March). Experimental game tor sickness in polygenic and polysymp- and Learning: A critical review of the Liter- design with the Oculus Rift. In Virtual Real- tomatic: Implications for research. The In- ature. International Journal of Science Educa- ity (VR), 2014 iEEE (pp. 1-2). IEEE. ternational Journal of Aviation Psychology, 2 tion. 34 (9) 1337-1370. Barnett, A. (2006). Above the horizon: The (1), 23-38. Taylor, J. (1997). The emerging geographies of changing face of planetariums. ASTC Di- Lantz, E. (2011). Planetarium of the future. The virtual worlds. Geographical Review. 87 (2) mensions: Bimonthly News Journal of the As- Museum Journal. 2( 3), 293-312. 172-192. sociation of Science-Technology Centers. Sep- Lee, K. M. (2004). Presence, explicated. Commu- Triandis, H. C., Kurowski, L. L., & Gelfand, M. J. tember/October. nication theory, 14 (1), 27-50. (1994). Workplace diversity. Boas, Y. A. G. V. (2013). Overview of Virtual Re- Leggon, C. B. (2006). Assessing programs to im- Vogt, W. P. (1999). Dictionary of statistics and ality Technologies. prove minority participation in STEM fields: methodology. Sage: Thousand Oaks, Califor- Brisson, L., Eisenkraft, A., Flatow, I., Friedman, What we know and what we need to know. nia. A., Kirsch, J., Macdonald, M., Marshall, E., Cornell University. Winn, W. (1997, May). The impact of three- McCallie, E., Nesbit, T., Prosino, R., Petit, C., Marton, F. (1986). Phenomenography - A re- dimensional immersive virtual envi- Schubel, J., Traill, S., Wharton, D., Williams, search approach to investigating differ- ronments on modern pedagogy (HITL S., Witte, J., (2010). Informal Science Educa- ent understandings of reality. Journal of Technical Report R-97-15). Discussion pa- tion Policy: Issues and Opportunities. An In- Thought, 21, 28-49. per for NSF workshop. Seattle, WA: Uni- quiry Group Report. Washington, D.C.: Cen- McLellan, H. (1996). Virtual realities. In D. H. versity of Washington, Human Inter- ter for Advancement of Informal Science Jonassen (Ed.), Handbook of research for edu- face Technology Laboratory. I 38 Planetarian March 2016 3_IQAd_Smart.pdf 1 1/28/16 11:50 AM .. smart: adjective \ smart \ 1. adept at thinking, learning, or teaching, intelligent 2. guided or automated 3. appealing to good judgment, “A ‘smart’ choice” C M Y CM MY CY CMY K TM affordable high resolution projection systems The new “IQ”series SciDome projection systems deliver high-budget performance at an educator’s price. Available in 2400, 2560, and 4K resolution, SciDome IQ gives you ultra-high definition imagery and superior brightness. Why settle for more expensive displays that don’t offer the education features of SciDome? www.spitzinc.com/IQ March 2016 Planetarian 39 Travis A. Rector University of Alaska Anchorage, Alaska USA tarector@uaa.alaska.edu Jonathan VanBallenberghe Filmaker Open Lens Productions Tucson, Arizona USA Fulldome in the last frontier The challenges and opportunities of filming fulldome in Alaska It was another cold and rainy July day in utation among the other bears for doing just of the few universities to have the astrono- the McNeil River State Game Sanctuary on that. my classes meet in the planetarium for every the Alaska Peninsula, but we didn’t care about Unfortunately for the four of us, we were class.) the weather. In front of us were more than 50 the only things between the thieving bear But we also recognized how our planetar- brown bears, most of whom were fishing for and Yolanda. As the bear walked past, so close ium could be used to educate the public. In chum salmon in the falls of the McNeil River. I could have touched it, a brief glance was its particular, we wanted to use immersive full- The sanctuary is home to the world’s largest only acknowledgement of our existence. The dome video to share with people, Alaskans congregation of brown bears, and today the McNeil River delta is rich with nutrients that and visitors alike, many of the special plac- bears were engaged in a complex choreogra- bears crave, so much so that humans are of lit- es in our state that few will get to experience phy of fishing while navigating the complex tle concern to them. This fact allows groups firsthand. We have now made a couple of social hierarchy between them. Our goal was like us to come to the sanctuary and be in the films about distinctively Alaskan experiences, to catch it all on film. presence of these apex predators without fear and in the process we’ve developed strategies A mid-sized adult female bear, nicknamed for our safety. It also enabled us to film and for fulldome filmmaking to match the unique “Yolanda” by the Alaska Fish and Game sanc- observe their behavior in a natural setting, to challenges and opportunities of filming in ex- tuary managers, was having as especially good see them as they really are. treme locations and conditions in our state. day catching salmon. As she was leaving the In 2008 the University of Alaska in Anchor- river with her sixth fish of the day, another age opened a new planetarium with a 4k full- River of Bears bear decided to take an interest in her catch. dome digital system. Since our facility is at a Our first fulldome production is called Riv- Some bears are better at stealing fish than university, our primary goal is to use the plan- er of Bears and is about the bears at the McNeil catching them, and this one clearly had a rep- etarium for teaching purposes. (We are one River sanctuary. It turns out that this show 40 Planetarian March 2016 Facing page: Travis Rector (left) and Jonathan VanBallenberghe stand- ing on the frozen Bering Sea while filming in Nome, Alaska. All imag- es provided by authors. Map of Alaska from Wikimedia Commons. This page, top: Conducting an interview with a 360° is a great way to share a visually interesting place. This is a still of an inter- view of McNeil River site manager Robin Dublin inside her cabin. Center: By combining a 360° shot with an inset view, we were able to give the sensation of watching a bear eating a salmon. This bear em- ployed a distinctive style of eating with the fish pinned to its arm. Bottom: A still from the opening shot of River of Bears us- ing the “shit blend” technique. The back of the dome is darkened to minimize scattered light. has the distinction of being the first ever live- action wildlife documentary shot in the full- dome format. McNeil River was our first choice of places to film because access to the sanctuary is dif- ficult. It is reachable only by floatplane. Visi- tors must be willing and able to endure hours of bear watching in weather that is often cold, wet, and windy. Despite the discomforts, the demand for permits to visit the sanctuary is enormous. McNeil is legendary among wild- life viewers around the world, but only 10 people can visit at a time. We recognized that immersive fulldome video was a way to bring the McNeil experience to the many who will never have the chance to go. Constrains to filming Filming at McNeil was not trivial. All film crews, whether us or National Geograph- ic, are limited to only three people. For safe- ty reasons all 10 visitors, which includes the film crew, must remain together at all times. We also were not allowed to set up equipment away from the group, lest they become expen- sive bear chew toys. Within these constraints we used several hardware and software solutions to give the sensation of being at the sanctuary. We used 360° GoPro camera rigs for establishing shots, to give the viewers the sensation of being at features a short clip of a bear using a particu- field of view. A single frame from this portion that particular filming location. lar technique. of the video was then used to create the rest of With a few exceptions, however, the bears We also used several different digital stitch- the panorama. It was then stitched to a fisheye were too far away to be seen in detail with ing techniques. For the opening shot we shot of clouds in the sky. the 360° shots. We therefore obtained shots wished to create the sensation a visitor first Finally, we used an unconventional storytell- with traditional video cameras and telepho- has when seeing a bear up close at on the Mc- ing style. Bear viewing at McNeil River requires to lenses. To simulate the sensation of looking Neil River delta. This shot required a simulta- patience. Visitors will sit in a particular location through binoculars, these shots were used as neous panorama and detailed bear shot, one for hours waiting for bear and other wildlife ac- inset windows within a 360° establishing shot. we weren’t able to obtain with the 360° rig due tivity. Far from boring, it is an opportunity to By using both kinds of shots we were able to to safety issues. take in the sights and sounds that surround you. naturally mimic how our eyes perceive: using To create the shot we used what we hence- To capture this feeling, only about 30% of the the wide field to survey one’s location while forth called a “shit blend” (so named because show has narration. Just as a visitor to McNeil using the narrow field to focus on detail. the first attempts were less than pleasing). We would experience, most of what you learn is We also used multiple inset windows as a used a telephoto shot of a bear on the delta told by the managers of the sanctuary through storytelling device. For example, a portion with mountains visible in the background. on-site dialog where they describe what you are of the show talks about the different fishing The clip was taken on a fixed tripod. Near the seeing. Surround sound recorded at McNeil was techniques that bears use. Each inset window end of the footage the bear wanders out of the used to complete the experience. March 2016 Planetarian 41 Above Alaska Alaska is famous for many things, includ- ing its spectacular aurora displays. In Octo- ber 2015 we released a new show called Above Alaska that is designed to give viewers the sen- sation of enjoying a night of aurora watching in our state. While viewing auroras in Alaska, it is not uncommon to hear cheers off in the distance during a particularly strong outburst. It can seem like the entire state is watching at once. To capture this feeling, the show contains au- rora footage from over one hundred nights of filming obtained during a two-year peri- od from different locations around the state. The footage was edited to give the impression of a single night of viewing as it is being en- Above: Jonathan checks his camera settings joyed by many. In the show the auroral pat- while filming Pacific walrus on a rare sunny day terns build and ebb in a way typical of most at Round Island, Alaska. Below, from top down: A sounding rocket is launched into the auro- displays. ra at the Poker Flat Flat Research Range, which Daytime establishing shots of different is operated by the Geophysical Institute at the filming locations with aurora watchers were hibitive for most potential visitors. University of Alaska in Fairbanks. obtained with our 360° rigs, whereas night- Located in Bristol Bay, access to the island is time aurora shots were obtained through time possible only after a two-day journey by mul- A still from a time lapse sequence of aurora seen under a nearly full moon. Moonlight can lapse. We used short and continuous time tiple flights and then by commercial boat. But obscure fainter aurora but can also illuminate lapse exposures to have the motion of the au- our efforts were rewarded with intimate ac- ground features such as trees and snow. Notice rora appear more realistic. cess to a wide range of wildlife. the snow has a green tint from the aurora itself. The rig was as simple as a camera with a full- As the name implies, the island is a haul-out hemisphere fisheye lens powered by a ma- site for thousands of Pacific walrus during the rine battery. The rig was placed in a Pelican summer. It is also a gathering point for Steller case with a hole cut in the side for the fish- sea lions and several species of whales. In sum- eye lens. Most of the footage was obtained in mer months the island is inhabited by over the interior of the state, where winter temper- a quarter million sea birds, including com- atures can dip to -50°F. Remarkably, our cam- mon murres, kittiwakes, cormorants, eras functioned largely without problem in and puffins. Red foxes on the island these extreme temperatures, even if we did are fearless hunters of these birds and, not. Precision tasks such as focusing are a chal- as we discovered, of microphone wind lenge when you cannot take off your gloves. muffs and GoPro cameras. An acciden- (Pro tip: Do not put a metal flashlight in your tal video of a fox chewing up one of mouth at -40° as it will immediately freeze to our GoPros while it was recording made your lips!) for an amusing viral video that has gar- Because the fisheye shots are of only a nered over 1.5 million views (Google “fox hemisphere, we were more constrained in our eats gopro”.) Our plan is to make a show ability to digitally frame the shot in post pro- about Round Island and how its inhabitants cessing. We therefore used other techniques are being affected by climate change. (www. to make shots dynamic, such as slow rotation youtube.com/watch?v=ojSaYrOttVs) during the shot, zooming in (which gives the Our biggest lesson from filming in Alaska sensation of lifting up off of the ground), and has been the humbling experience of work- using a shot twice, but rotated 180° for the sec- ing in climates and conditions far beyond ond use. We also simulated twilight in some our control. Whether they be auklets or au- shots by digitally ramping up the exposure. rora, we are often at the mercy of what To maintain the sensation of watching the au- mother nature chooses to show us. For rora in person, the show has no narration. In- this reason we don’t film with a script stead it is set to music. in mind, but rather we let the places and people in Alaska tell us their sto- New projects and new challenges ries. These stories are often in places so Because most of Alaska is inaccessible by remote and pristine they lack even the car, the biggest challenge can be just getting most rudimentary facilities, with lit- to the filming site. In 2014 we filmed for five tle recourse in the case of an emergen- days at Round Island, which is part of the Wal- cy. Alaska frequently reminds you of rus Islands State Game Sanctuary. Unlike Mc- your limitations in a world and wilder- Neil River, getting a permit to visit Round Is- ness much larger than you, a real-life man- land is easy to obtain because the tremendous ifestation of a story that all planetariums effort and expense required to get there is pro- strive to tell. I 42 Planetarian March 2016 March 2016 Planetarian 43 Above: The exterior of the Burke Baker Planetarium;a view of the ISS from the new Sky Boxes in the back of the planetarium; and the size of the Sony projectors. All photos provided by the author. Dr. Carolyn Sumners Vice President for Astronomy and the Physical Sciences Houston Museum of Natural Science Houston, TX 77030 USA csumners@hmns.org The first true 8K planetarium: Houston reaches the stars Astronomy knowledge is exploding at ev- cle 8,000 pixels in diameter, or just over 50 itors the rich color palette they see in movie ery wavelength, taking us closer to the edge of million pixels. theaters. space and the beginning of time. Now plane- E&S accepted the challenge and provid- Years of animations produced by Digistar tarium projection technology can provide the ed a system that actually delivers 50,602,000 planetariums using the Digistar 3D starfield, computer processing, data storage, resolution, unique pixels to the dome at 60 frames a sec- with hundreds of models, have helped sig- and brightness to deliver the farthest galaxy, ond. This True8K™ system requires five 4K nificantly in our production of new 8K con- newest exoplanet, and latest amazing discov- projectors along the horizon and five 4K pro- tent without months of rendering. Last fall ery. jectors to cover the rest of the dome, generat- we began downloading proven scripts stored The Houston Museum of Natural Science ing about 80 million pixels before edge blend- on the E&S Cloud and adapting them to cre- decided that it was time for Space City to have ing. Existing 8K planetariums have four 4K ate exciting audience experiences and to meet a renovated Burke Baker Planetarium, display- projectors along the horizon and one or two the required learning goals of our students. ing the richest starry night and creating the projectors for the rest of the dome. With edge We thank Evans & Sutherland for facilitating sharpest and most dramatic immersive adven- blending, these systems deliver about 30 mil- and encouraging this level of drag-and-drop tures in 21st century astronomy. lion pixels, only 60% of those required for a sharing, so we could have live 8K experienc- We challenged Evans & Sutherland to de- True8K projection. es already prepared for our renovated theater sign a projection system that would approach opening. the limits of the human eye, giving visitors The night sky of West Texas Before we closed for renovation in Decem- the best possible experience. An arc minute Planetariums began with giant opto-me- ber, we vetted these experiences with our is about what the human eye can resolve. For chanical machines that replicated the starry partner educators at the Houston Indepen- the dome, that means a meridian of a little night far from city lights, but kept audienc- dent School District and are now testing their more than 10 thousand pixels (180° times 60). es firmly on Earth. We wanted to recreate the effectiveness on student learning. Teresa Phil- With that in mind, consider an 8K dome dark night sky of West Texas and be able to lips, HISD Manager of Elementary Science, master. Every meridian through the zenith travel anywhere our data could take us with summarized our success: has at least 8,000 pixels. Going from north to all the contrast and color that the human eye “We are very excited about the renovations south along the horizon, an 8K dome master can see. The new 4K Sony VPL-GTZ280 laser taking place in the Burke Baker Planetarium. has over 12,500 pixels (circumference of the projector has a 20,000:1 contrast ratio that For generations, fourth grade students from semi-circle). So, on average, an 8K dome mas- makes this possible, delivering a very black HISD have been able to experience the dark ter has enough pixels to approach the resolu- night sky with bright stars and a rich Milky night sky and observe different objects in the tion of the human eye. The number of unique Way. The extended color space of the projec- sky in the planetarium. The incredible digi- pixels in this dome master is the area of a cir- tor’s laser-generated light source also gives vis- (Continues on page 46) 44 Planetarian March 2016 IPS FULLDOME FESTIVAL BRNO 2016 15 –17 June 2016 BRNO OBSERVATORY AND PLANETARIUM Open a window to the fulldome world! www.fulldomefestivalbrno.com March 2016 Planetarian 45 (8K, continued from page 44) tal clarity of the new Digistar 5 system will allow our students to clearly visualize abstract concepts such as the phases of the moon and the rotation of the Earth through this immer- sive experience. We appreciate Left: Students from the Hous- the ongoing collaboration be- ton Independent School Dis- tween our two organizations trict taking part in a planetar- ium program. Below: A side and know that the renovat- view of the planetarium’s inte- ed planetarium will provide rior; the new projector allows an experience that our fourth the highest resolution Hubble graders will not soon forget.” images to be displayed in their full glory. This immersive view from the renovated planetarium’s top platform “sky boxes” illus- trates our production efforts in True8K. A NASA astronaut photograph taken with the museum’s 8mm fisheye lens on the ISS is composited over an 8K Digistar starfield with the museum’s 8K model of the Interna- tional Space Station layered in front. When animated, this scene lets students discover where astronauts live in space now. A new dome to open the sky To accommodate the physical limitation of our iconic exterior dome, we chose a 50-ft (15.2-m) Spitz NanoSeam™ dome tilted at 20°, providing a seemingly boundless visual expe- rience facilitated by the dome’s forward tilt. The visually seamless dome also diminish- es audience awareness of the dome’s physical size. Our raked seating platforms with an ele- vator and “sky boxes” in the back can accom- modate 187 visitors. Our installation schedule allowed exact- ly 20 days to destroy our old theater, leaving a black dome cavern, and 60 days to install a new dome, new floor platforms, new interior walls, new seats, new lights, new sound, and those 10 new Sony 4K projectors with the 20 computers and fiber optic cables to support them. We completed construction with centime- ters to spare in every direction and reopened just in time for the crowds of spring break. dramatically replicates reality than any oth- This insane timeline required the combined er system currently known. Our fulldome ex- Dr. Carolyn Sumners is the Vice President for Astronomy and the Physical Sciences at the efforts of all museum departments, E&S, Sony, perience now has the brightness, resolution, Houston Museum of Natural Science, an ad- Spitz, the Digistar Users Group, American Seat- and vividness of the best theater screens, sur- junct professor at Rice University and at the ing, Hudson Building Systems, the Johnson rounding the audience in every direction. The University of Houston and a museum educator Space Center, and even Julius Caesar for giv- Burke Baker Planetarium and its Friedkin The- for the Houston Independent School District. ing us an additional day when we needed it ater, the cornerstone of our institution when She directs the Museum’s Burke Baker Plane- tarium, Expedition Center, and George Obser- most! we opened in 1964, is now a crowning jewel in vatory. She opened the first full dome digital our 21st century museum.” planetarium in the US in 1998 and has written “World-class experiences” If you are looking for the best possible dome and directed over 40 shows for local audienc- Museum President Joel Bartsch summarized experience, especially if you are limited by es and for national distribution in her 45 years at HMNS. She directed the development of the the larger context of this ambitious renova- space, time, budget, dome size, and/or pixels, first Challenger Learning Center in 1988 and in- tion. “The Houston Museum of Natural Sci- please come to Houston and see what we have vented the portable digital video theater in ence strives to offer world-class experiences done together with E&S. We are providing 2003. She is currently overseeing the complete in its exhibits and theaters. With the world’s the first True8K planetarium with the qual- renovation of the Burke Baker Planetarium in- first True8K planetarium, our starfield is now ity experience that today’s moviegoers ex- cluding installation of the world’s first True 8K an immersive exhibit that more closely and pect and that every urban child deserves. I planetarium. 46 Planetarian March 2016 March 2016 Planetarian 47 Planetariums in India: Domes By the Numbers Jayanta Sthanapati Former Deputy Director General National Council of Science Museums 4, K.K. Majumdar Road, Kolkata 700075, India dr.jayanta.sthanapati@gmail.com All images provided by the author. Introduction sam have three planetariums, while Andhra themselves in these domes. Other planetari- Planetariums have long been playing a cru- Pradesh, Kerala, Punjab, and Telengana have um domes range from 11 to 12.5 m, which are cial role in refining the astronomical concepts two planetariums. Other states like Goa, Hary- 10 in total, like the ones at Nagpur, Hyder- of the people of India. After the country’s in- ana, Manipur, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Rajas- abad, Odisha, etc. Here around 120 to 130 peo- dependence in 1947, national leaders devised than, and Sikkim have one planetarium. The ple can gather for a show. various means to uplift the educational, eco- states which do not operate any planetarium Next are the domes having diameter of 14.3 nomical, and social standards of the people. are 10, namely, Arunachal Pradesh, Chattis- m to 15.3 m. They are 8 in total and approxi- Developing schools, colleges, and educational garh, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, mately 140 to 250 people can watch a show. institutions became one of the primary tasks Jharkhand, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, They are at Patna, Chennai, Bangalore, etc. in order to ensure a developed society. In time Tripura, and Uttarakhand. Out of seven Union Lastly are the big dome planetariums, ranging with such improvements came new ways of Territories, only Delhi, Puducherry, and Lak- (Continues on page 53) education. Visionary decisions were taken by shadweep, have planetariums. many scientists, educationists, industrialists, The first planetarium in India was estab- and philanthropists to establish science mu- lished by an industrialist and the remain- seums and planetariums, which strove for a ing 54 were set up by various agencies, in- better environment where education would cluding industrial houses. Sponsors of the be an inevitable knowledge for everyone. In 55 planetariums belong to government de- 1954, a science museum was set up in Birla In- partments (17), science museums/centres stitute of Technology and Science at Pilani, (13), schools and colleges (8), municipalities and a planetarium was established in New (7), non-government organizations (5), and English School in Pune. The country now has private organisations (5). 65 science museums and 55 planetariums. Planetarium domes, projectors Locations and sponsors A planetarium is mainly measured by its India is divided into 29 states and 7 union dome structure. There are four small plane- territories. Most of the states and a few union tariums in our country which have domes territories have been operating planetari- of around 5 to 6 metres and hold a crowd ums, but some are devoid of them. The high- of 40 to 60 people in a show. They are at est number of planetariums, which is six, is in Delhi, Muzaffarpur, Guwahati, and Kol- Gujarat, Maharashtra and West Bengal. Next kata. Domes measuring 8 to 10 metres are are Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, and Uttar Pradesh, 27 in total, like at Porbandar, Allahabad, having four planetariums each. Bihar and As- Warrangal, etc. About 100 people can seat 48 Planetarian March 2016 skyskan.com/shows 8K/4K, 2D/3D, 30/60fps For more information: sales@skyskan.com amontele@ngs.org filmdist@ngs.org paul@blazedigitalcinema.com March 2016 Planetarian 49 Planetarian_March_2016_Asteroid_Mission_Extreme.indd 1 1/22/2016 10:11:24 AM DigitalSky Full theater control means. true integration SPICE AUTOMATION AAutomating a theater that simultaneously runs projectors, house and cove lighting, sound, and multimedia demands a superior control system. Today, hundreds of the world’s top planetariums and large-format theaters rely on SPICE Automation. Now SPICE and DigitalSky are unified, eliminating the need to have separate applications. intuitive Production SHOW CREATOR DDrag and drop 3D models, video, images, or audio onto the timeline for quick show assembly. Use the Auto Keyframing feature to modify position, scale, and other object properties. Auto Keyframing can significantly speed up your show creation efforts. Show Creator records all your actions and creates all the needed keyframes for you at the current show position, freeing you to focus entirely on what’s most important to you – creating the most compelling show possible. one-touch operation SHOW MANAGER Play fulldome content with the push of a button. Start, stop, pause, scrub forward and backward. The Show Manager is fully integrated The next generation in intuitive, into the Viewport, giving you a live view of what’s happening as you control your show content. unified fulldome theater software s5k0y skan .com Planetarian March 2016 DigitalSky Full theater control means. true integration SPICE AUTOMATION AAutomating a theater that simultaneously runs projectors, house and cove lighting, sound, and multimedia demands a superior control system. Today, hundreds of the world’s top planetariums and large-format theaters rely on SPICE Automation. Now SPICE and DigitalSky are unified, eliminating the need to have separate applications. intuitive Production SHOW CREATOR DDrag and drop 3D models, video, images, or audio onto the timeline for quick show assembly. Use the Auto Keyframing feature to modify position, scale, and other object properties. Auto Keyframing can significantly speed up your show creation efforts. Show Creator records all your actions and creates all the needed keyframes for you at the current show position, freeing you to focus entirely on what’s most important to you – creating the most compelling show possible. one-touch operation SHOW MANAGER Play fulldome content with the push of a button. Start, stop, pause, scrub forward and backward. The Show Manager is fully integrated The next generation in intuitive, into the Viewport, giving you a live view of what’s happening as you control your show content. unified fulldome theater software skyskan.com March 2016 Planetarian 51 Sky-Skan’s best-selling show for 2013 and 2014 Space Exploration Shaping Your Life 52 Planetarian March 2016 1 2 3 5 6 4 1. M.P. Birla Planetarium, Kolkata, tion. The first projection instrument was im- dome with a Spitz A1 projector is still in oper- the largest in India ported from Spitz Inc. of USA and installed ation. Our first Prime Minister Shri Jawaharlal in Pune. Planetariums in Haryana and Put- Nehru in 1956 had received a ZKP1 planetari- taparthi also use Spitz projectors. Apart from um projector as a gift from Carl Zeiss of Jena, 2. Nehru Planetarium, Mumbai, Spitz, 18 instruments manufactured by Carl Germany. He passed it on to Dr K.S. Krishnan, the most visited in India Zeiss from Germany are operating in Kolkata, director of National Physical Laboratory, New Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat etc., making Zeiss the Delhi, who in turn asked Shri R. Subramanian 3. Carl Zeiss ZKP1 projector of most popular suppliers of planetarium instru- to set up a 6-m dome planetarium at the NPL Gandhi Planetarium, Vijayawada ments in India. campus, the second planetarium in India. The second most popular instrument in The third planetarium was established in 4. Carl Zeiss Universal projector our planetariums is from GOTO Optical Mfg. Langat Singh College at Muzaffarpur in 1958. of M.P. Birla Planetarium, Kolkata Ltd., Japan. They are the suppliers of 13 instru- Its projector. a ZKP1 model. was gifted to Dr. ments operating in planetariums at Hyder- Rajendra Prasad, president of India, in 1956 5. Small dome digital planetari- abad, Odisha, West Bengal, Bihar, etc. The re- by Carl Zeiss. Dr. Prasad gave it to the college, um at North Bengal Science Cen- cently-opened planetarium at Ujjain has an where Rev. John Nitchel took the initiative to instrument similar to that of Guwahati, both open a 6-m planetarium. Shri Madhav Prasad tre, Siliguri of which have been manufactured by GOTO. Birla, an industrialist and philanthropists Digistar systems from Evans & Sutherland, in the early 1960s, took the initiative to cre- 6. GSS-Helios Star Ball projector USA operate in Bhubaneshwar, Kapurthala, ate the largest planetarium in the country in of GOTO Optical Mfg. Ltd. at UP, Mumbai, etc. Its latest model Digistar 5 Calcutta (now Kolkata). He appointed R. Sub- Science City, Kolkata functions at Allahabad. Ohira Tech. from Ja- ramanian of NPL as the project coordinator. pan and Sky-Skan, USA are also manufactur- This 23.2-m dome with a Zeiss Universal pro- ers to some of the instruments used in India. jector was dedicated to the nation in 1963 by (India, continued from page 48) There are 58 instruments imported to date for Prime Minister Pt Jawaharlal Nehru. The plan- from 16 to 23.2 m in diameter. There are six 50 planetariums, three of which had to be re- etarium was subsequently named after M. P. planetariums spread in Kolkata, Mumbai, Ka- placed. The high cost of these instruments is Birla and Shri R Subramanian has been head- purthala, etc. About 350 to 500 people can sit perhaps due to the foreign manufacturers sup- ing it for the last 52 years. together for a show and have a massive crowd plying us, since no planetarium projectors are of close to 3,00,000 people filling the arena ev- manufactured in India. The second and third decades ery year. Although M.P. Birla Planetarium in During the second decade (1964-1973), three Kolkata has the largest dome in India, the Ne- Planetariums of the first decade 8-m planetariums with Zeiss ZKP1 projectors hru Planetarium in Mumbai is currently the Kusumbai Motichand Planetarium, the first were established. Shri Jawaharlal Nehru Plan- most visited. planetarium in India, was established in 1954 etarium in Arya Kanya Vidya Mandir, a girls’ A lion’s share of a planetarium’s investment in Pune’s New English School. It was set up by school, was opened at Porbandar in 1965. It goes to obtaining the instrument for projec- the Walchand group of Industries. This 9-m (Continues on page 54) March 2016 Planetarian 53 7 8 7. Megastar-IIB Star Ball projector of Ohira Tech. Ltd, at Nehru Planetarium, New Delhi 8. Spectators in Nehru Planetarium, Mumbai (India, continued from page 53) facturing Ltd. of Japan in the country. The sec- Also opened in 1994 was Priyadarsini Plan- was sponsored by Shri Nanji Kalidas Mehta, ond B.M. Birla Planetarium was opened in 1988 etarium in Thiruvananthapuram, which was an industrialist. The other two planetariums in Chennai, with a 15-m dome and a GOTO sponsored by the Department of Higher Ed- were Gandhi Planetarium (1971) in Vijayawa- GM II–T Starfield projector. Only after a year, ucation, government of Kerala. The planetar- da, established by Gandhi Hill Foundation, the G.P. Birla Group opened another B.M. Birla ium has a Goto GM-II-AT projector in a 15-m and Rotarian Aswin Mehta Memorial Plane- Planetarium in Jaipur. Like the one in Hyder- dome. Rajkot Municipal Corporation, in 1994, tarium (1972) in Surat, founded by Surat Mu- abad, this planetarium has a 12-m dome and established Pramukh Swami Planetarium in nicipal Corporation. GOTO GX projector. Rajkot in a small 8-m dome with a Zeiss ZKP2 The growth of planetariums during the In 1985, the second Spitz projector, mod- projector. third decade (1974-1983) also was slow; only el Spitz 512, was installed in a 15-m dome at The National Council of Science Museums four were added to the chain. In 1976, Vado- Sri Sathya Sai Space Theatre in Putttaparthi. (NCSM), an autonomous organization func- dara Mahanagar Seva Sadan (a municipality) It was sponsored by Sri Sathya Sai Institute tioning under the aegis of the government of opened Sardar Vallabhabhai Patel Planetar- of Higher Learning. In 1987, Ludhiana Mu- India, is primarily responsible to establish and ium in Vadodara. This 12.5-m dome had in- nicipal Corporation established Nehru Plan- administer science museums in the country. stalled a Zeiss RFP projector. The next was Ne- etarium in Ludhiana in an 8-m dome having By 1995 it had set up as many as 17 science mu- hru Planetarium in Bombay (now Mumbai). a Zeiss ZKP2 projector. Two years later, Ship- seums, but not a single planetarium. It intro- This 22.86-m dome planetarium opened in ping Corporation of India established an iden- duced, however, indigenously-developed in- 1977, and also had a Zeiss projector, Universal tical planetarium in Mumbai. flatable dome planetariums in all the science Mark IV. Two more 8-m dome planetariums In 1989, Shrimati Nirmala Birla, wife of Shri museums under its control. were established during the decade. A plane- G.P. Birla, set up a small 5-m dome planetari- In 1997, NCSM established three fixed-dome tarium at the Govt. College of Engineering in um with a Goto E-5 projector in Modern High planetariums at the Raman Science Centre, Salem was opened with a Ziess ZKP1 projector School for Girls in Kolkata. The Bangalore As- Nagpur; Regional Science Centre, Kozhikode; in 1979. Another planetarium, called Jawahar sociation for Science Education opened Jawa- and Science City, Kolkata. Nagpur planetari- Planetarium, was set up in 1980 with a Zeiss harlal Nehru Planetarium in Bangalore in um has an 11-m dome and Zeiss ZKP3 projec- ZKP2 projector by Jawaharlal Nehru Memori- 1989. The 15-m dome has a Zeiss RFP-DP pro- tor. Kozhikode planetarium installed Zeiss al Fund in Allahabad. jector. RFP-DP2 projector in a 15.3-m dome. The Space Two more planetariums were opened dur- Theatre at Science City, Kolkata has a GSS-He- One planetarium a year ing the decade. Both were established by the lios Star ball projector along with Astrovision The first planetarium of the fourth decade Science and Technology Departments of 70 manufactured by GOTO. (1984-1993) was again named after Jawahar- their respective state governments and in- In 1998, Manipal University established lal Nehru, first prime minister of India. Nehru stalled Goto projectors. Pathani Samanta the Dr. T.M.A. Pai Planetarium at its campus, Planetarium, New Delhi opened in 1984 and Planetarium of Bhubaneswar opened in 1990 an 8-m dome with a Zeiss ZKP2 projector. An- was sponsored by Jawaharlal Nehru Memori- with a Goto GX2 projector in a 12-m dome. In other small dome planetarium (8.5-m) with a al Fund. This 15-m dome also used a Zeiss pro- 1993, Indira Gandhi Planetarium, Patna, was GOTO GS projector was opened at Anna Sci- jector, RFP-DP1. In 1984, Pratap Rudra Planetar- opened in a 16-m dome with a Goto GM-II ence Centre, Tiruchirapalli in 1999 by the ium was established by Warangal Municipal Starfield projector. Tamil Nadu Science and Technology Centres. Corporation in Warangal. The 8-m dome has Ten planetariums were opened during the The first planetarium in the new millenni- a Zeiss ZKP2 projector. fifth decade (1994-2003). Guwahati Planetari- um was established by the Council of Science In the early 1980s, Shri Ganga Prasad Birla, um, a 12-m dome planetarium with a Goto GX and Technology of the government of Uttar an industrialist and cousin brother of M.P. Bir- projector, was established by the Department Pradesh in Lucknow. Named Indira Gandhi la, took the initiative to set up three planetar- of Science and Technology of the government Planetarium, this Saturn-shaped building has iums in the country in memory of his father of Assam in 1994 at Guwahati. Another plane- a 15-m dome and a GOTO G-1518-AT projector. Shri Braj Mohan Birla. The first B.M. Birla Plan- tarium with a Goto projector (model GS-AT), etarium, opened in Hyderabad in 1985, had a called Meghnad Saha Planetarium, was opened Enhanced growth in sixth decade 12m dome. It was the first projector (model in 1994 at Burdwan (now Bardhaman). It was An amazing 17 planetariums were opened GX) manufactured by GOTO Optical Manu- sponsored by the University of Burdwan. (Continues on page 56) 54 Planetarian March 2016 fulldome at its best emotional education www.lifeoftrees.com www.softmachine.de environmental partner March 2016 Planetarian 55 (India, continued from page 54) government of Madhya Pradesh opened Ujj- during the sixth decade (2004-2013) in In- ain Planetarium in Ujjain in a 12-m dome with dia. In 2006, the Council of Science and Tech- a Chronos-II and Vertuarium-II SP2 HD projec- nology of the government of Uttar Pradesh tion systems manufactured by GOTO. opened Veer Bahadur Singh Planetarium, a Starting from 2003, nine out of above men- 17.5-m dome with Digistar 3. In 2007, the Na- tioned 50 planetariums have been upgraded. tional Council of Science Museums, on be- Further, NCSM has opened five 8-m domes half of the Council of Science and Technolo- during 2014-15 in science centres in Patna, gy of the government of Haryana, established Digha, Gangtok, Imphal, and Puducherry. Kalpana Chawla Memorial Planetarium in Ku- Newmedia Creative Technology Studio rukshetra. The 12-m dome planetarium has a Planetarium visitors and FDDB.org are teaming together to pres- Spitz 1024 projector along with SciDome HB Out of the 55 planetariums, four have been ent Madrid2016, a new fulldome festival set digital system. inoperative for many years, five have been at Universidad Complutense de Madrid. The Yashwantrao Chavan Planetarium, a 10-m set up during 2015, and three planetariums dates are May 18-21. Deadline for submissions dome planetarium with a Digistar 3 projec- have not furnished visitors’ data. Although is March 15. tor was opened in Nashik in 2007. Puspa Gu- M.P. Birla Planetarium in Kolkata has the larg- There are six entry categories and three au- jral Science City in Kapurthala also installed est dome in India, the Nehru Planetarium in dience awards for each category, along with Digistar 3 along with Astrovision Ultra 70 Mumbai is currently the most visited plane- independent prizes. Categories are: from GOTO in its 23-m dome Space Theatre tarium in India. • Fulldome shorts (between 1 to 8 minutes, in 2008. A study of the attendance record for 43 GCI or footage) Three planetariums were opened in 2009. planetariums during the year 2013 shows that • Fulldome music shows (in two categories NCSM set up a 5-m fibreglass dome planetar- 21 planetariums of dome sizes 5-10-m were vis- of music show and live shows, which can ium at the Regional Science Centre, Guwa- ited by 7,50,148 visitors. Shows in 18 planetari- encompass areas other than music) hati, where a Hal X2 Omnifocus projector ums of dome sizes 11-15.3-m were attended by • Fulldome independent shows (10-15 min- manufactured by The Elumenati, USA was 21,79,019 spectators. Four large planetariums utes, open to anyone) used. Asha Kiran Planetarium set up by the of 16-23.2m domes attracted 8,24,926 visi- • Fulldome feature shows (pre-rendered Hukkeri family in Belgaum has a 12-m dome tors. Such annual planetarium attendance of shows; innovative ideas for fulldome with a spherical mirror system from Discov- 3.75 million is, however, only 0.29% of India’s complete shows, including interactivity, ery Dome, USA. The third 2009 installation current population. I reactive sound, and lighting) opened a 14.3-m dome at Surat Science Centre, • Fulldome student projects, open world- using Digistar 3, by sponsored by Surat Munic- wide Dr Jayanta Sthanapati, former Deputy Director ipal Corporation. • VR projects, an open contest for students General of National Council of Science Muse- worldwide, including augmented reality, ums is currently engaged in studying the ‘His- Popular 8-m domes tory of Science Museums and Planetariums in interactivity, games, music videos, mov- In 2010, NCSM opened 8-m planetariums in India’, a research project sponsored by the In- ies, and more. its three units: North Bengal Science Centre, dian National Science Academy. He holds PhD Go to www.immersivefest.com for more in- Siliguri; District Science Centre, Gulbarga; and (Physics) and PhD (History) degrees. formation. I District Science Centre, Tirunelveli. While the planetarium at Siliguri has a Digistar 3 system, Bard Spiral Tales of life, the universe and a few other things. By Chuck Rau the other two have SX3-MK II Full Dome sys- tems from Immersive Display, UK. NCSM’s District Science Centre at Dharam- Top 10 Things Laserists Say That Sound Smart: pur also installed a SX3-MK II in an 8-m dome in 2011. In the same year, the Department of Science and Technology of the union territo- Any sentence with “Poly-Chromatic Acousto-Optic Modulator.” ry of Lakshadweep opened a 10-m planetari- I replaced my Diode-Pumped Solid-State Laser with this OPSL. um in Kavaratti, using a Megastar-IIB Star Ball Light Amplification by the Stimulated Emission of Radiation of Ohira Tech. Ltd., Japan, along with a Sky- Skan Definity Theater. I ran the phased output of the oscillator through the VCA, then Two planetariums were established in 2012. added colormod in the 6th range and a low frequency chop. The Council of Science and Technology of the government of Uttar Pradesh opened Ary- These 60K feedback scanners are much better than the old open- abhatta Planetarium in Rampur. The 12-m loop galvos, but nothing beats the classic lumia abstracts. dome uses a Digistar 4 system. NCSM opened one more 8-m planetarium, this time at Goa Patch the clycloid through a quadrature with a fixed rotation. Science Centre at Panaji using a SX3-MK II Full Just use a dichroic filter to mix the 520 and 446nm with a 660. Dome System. Two small and a medium size planetarium I have to call Air Traffic Control after filing my report with the were set up in 2013. Efforts Planetarium, an Center for Devices and Radiological Heath. 8-m dome with Digistar 4 was opened by Ef- You‛ll be calling it a Chroma-6 by the time I‛m done with it. forts Academy in Ahmednagar. An 8-m plan- etarium was also set up at Jorhat Science Cen- No, I will not do a Justin Bieber show. tre, Jorhat by NCSM using a Digistar 3. The Council of Science and Technology of the www.bardspiral.com ©2016 C.Rau 56 Planetarian March 2016 March 2016 Planetarian 57 How We Do It Tips and tricks to share Michael Zwelling Rock Creek Park Nature Center & Planetarium Washington, D.C. USA Michael_zwelling@nps.gov Planetariums offer wonderful visual and audio engagement for visitors, but one thing that typically seems to be missing is the hands-on experience. At Rock Creek Park in Washington, D.C. we have found a way to include the tactile experience that is so important to early childhood and elementary education children. This can be done inexpensively with objects children know and readily understand. One of the first moments of wonder and fascination for students in telligences. Gardner’s idea proposed that intelligence is not a single enti- the Rock Creek Park planetarium is when the simulated local light pol- ty, but that there are several intelligences at work in a person and each lution is turned off and suddenly the darkened sky is full of bright stars can be at different stages at the same time. A child, for example, may and a segment of the Milky Way comes into view. Some students are be ahead of some peers in terms of spatial/ visual maturation, but be drawn in by the colors of planets and nebulae, the movement of ce- markedly behind in terms of musical intelligence. lestial bodies, and the opportunity to “discover” new faraway places. One of the intelligences proposed by Gardner is the bodily/kines- Some students hang on the words of the park ranger presenting the thetic intelligence. Kinesthetic intelligence entails using parts of or planetarium program, showing they are clearly at home listening to the whole body to solve problems and gain understanding. Therefore, the presentation. The sound of the rockets as we blast off in an imagi- Gardner sees cognition and kinesthetic intelligence as connected. nary spacecraft creates a clear picture in some minds. The theory of multiple intelligences proposes the ability to learn The visual and auditory stimulation are key learning elements. The at different levels throughout one’s life, including early childhood experience can be greatly enhanced by engaging the sense of touch as years. The concept of learning styles is different. This theory, explored well. But how can we give children that tactile experience in a plane- by Walter B. Barbe a few years before Gardner’s multiple intelligenc- tarium heavily dependent on sight, sound and movement? es were introduced, looks at how people learn and the different senses that should be engaged. Changes The three primary senses are sight (visual), sound (auditory), and The idea that people learn differently, or have different abilities in touch (kinesthetic). Learning styles should be considered when teach- regards to learning, is not new and has gained a following over the ing children to ensure there is balance across the board and that chil- last 30-plus years. Education has undergone many changes during the dren with different preferences have an opportunity to absorb mate- twentieth century and will continue to change during the twenty-first rial in the best way for the individual. Learning styles and multiple century. Learning by rote, or memorization, was more prevalent in the intelligences differ in approach and ability to learning, but both see early part of the twentieth century than it is today. kinesthetic activities as valuable strategies in education. Some rote learning, such as reciting the alphabet, repeating the order of numbers, and basic math functions will likely always have a place In the planetarium in memorization, but other learning may be replaced by technology. Auditory and visual learning is where planetariums have an oppor- Certainly spelling is important in educational settings, but as children tunity to shine. Planetariums certainly provide a visual experience grow older they find spell check applications an easier fix than remem- with all of the wonders of the night sky, including planets, nebulae, bering how to spell. stars, and constellations. Spoken words and recorded sounds also help In higher grades there are certain things teachers feel should be students to grasp the material. What is a planet or a nebula? Why does pulled from memory, such as scientific or mathematical formulas, but the sky look the way it does? An experience at the planetarium can an- simply lecturing and offering written exercises to enforce memoriza- swer many questions and open new avenues of inquiry. tion does not satisfy the whole learner and is not fully appropriate for Planetariums offer children new ways to see the night sky. Students all learners. and teachers get to visit planets and moons in our own solar system. Two concepts explored in brief here are learning styles and multiple They may get to go back in time and learn Native American stories, see intelligences. Howard Gardner proposed the concept of multiple intel- how other cultures perceive the sky and gain some context for the lat- ligences in 1983 in his book Frames of Mind: The Theory of Multiple In- est scientific discoveries. They may learn a new way to explore planets 58 Planetarian March 2016 around other stars and, in the end, perhaps one of our solar system’s many the planetarium can open up minds moons. We usually visit a rocky inner in ways books, movies, and other planet and a gaseous outer world. multi-media may not. Then we ask about the ball and rock. At Rock Creek Park, one of the Which is bigger? Which is smaller? key elements to teaching and learn- Which is heavier? Which is lighter? We ing is the planetarium operator. We can ask which is denser, and, with an ex- do not simply hit “play” and run an planation of what density is, the rela- automated, predesigned program. tive density of the rock and ball. Then Instead, the park ranger presenting we ask students to compare the ball and the program reads the audience and rock to the planets. For example, we ask navigates from one wonder to the which object is similar to Venus and next and from one celestial body to which is similar to Jupiter. another. The goal is to give children an oppor- Curriculum requirements are the tunity to compare and contrast through basis of education programs, but a concrete hands-on experience instead there is opportunity to explore more of just abstract thinking through visu- deeply and with more meaning al and audio stimulation. Children get based on audience response. With a to feel the texture of the stone and ball, dynamic planetarium program, the they get to feel a difference in weight operator can listen to the audience and size. It helps them to understand and not simply direct their atten- the difference between rocky and gas- tion, but also explore with them and eous worlds in an easy practical way. allow for a shared discovery. Students may come from private Conclusion schools or public schools, or they This kinesthetic activity appears may be home schooled, and can to help students gain an understand- range from pre-kindergarten to high ing based on the way they answer the school levels. Whatever their educa- re-enforcement, concluding questions tional background, students will get a asked after a program to ensure they ab- full sight and sound experience that is sorbed the material. Teachers have tout- enhanced by a hands-on activity. ed the hands-on segment as an effective way for their students to gain an under- Touching the sky standing of the material presented and Planetariums do a wonderful Top: The ball and stone we use, illuminated by the Spitz SciDome. have requested future program book- Below: In use by the target audience. All photos by author, Michael job of exposing children to the sky ings. Zwelling, and permission for use has been granted. through visual stimulation and au- One of the goals of interpretation and dio engagement. Typically what is education at American national parks is missing is a hands-on (kinetic) ex- to help visitors make a connection with perience. There can be a number of reasons for this. The planetarium their parks intellectually and emotionally. Our planetarium programs may be dark, making a hands-on activity difficult. What sort of tactile are designed with education and National Park Service goals. The experience can children have when dealing with space during a pre- hands-on segment of some of our planetarium programs helps satis- sentation? How do you move easily from a presentation to an activi- fy those goals and perhaps plant the science or inquiry-based seed in ty? Can an activity can be conducted pre- or post-planetarium? Chil- a child’s mind as they set out on their lifelong journey of discovery. dren can, perhaps, make a craft or conduct an experiment involving the sun. References At Rock Creek Park we have found a way to include a hands-on as- Howard Gardner. Frames of Mind: The Theory of Multiple Intelligences. pect during some of our early childhood and elementary-aged plane- New York: Basic Books, 2011. tarium programs. We use two tools: an inflated plastic ball measuring Michael Gurian, Kathy Stevens, and Kelley King. Strategies for Teach- about 35 centimeters in diameter (13.7 inches) that, when fully inflat- ing Boys and Girls: Elementary Level. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass, 2008. ed, weighs about 145 grams (five ounces), and a small granite rock ap- Monisha Pasupathi. How We Learn: Course Guidebook. Chantilly, Va.: proximately seven centimeters in diameter (about 2.8 inches), weigh- The Learning Company, 2012. ing in at 725 grams (about 1.6 pounds). Freeman Tilden. Interpreting Our Heritage. Chapel Hill: University of A second ball, similar to the first, and a second rock, oblong in shape North Carolina Press, 2007. weighing about 1,725 grams (about 3.8 pounds) and about 8.9 centime- NGSS Lead States. Next Generation Science Standards: For States, By ters in diameter (11 inches) can be added based on group size. These are States. Washington, DC: The National Academies Press, 2013. significant weight and size differences that are easy for children to un- Walter B. Barbe and Raymond H. Swassing. Teaching through Mo- derstand. dality Strengths: Concepts and Practices. Columbus: Zaner-Bloser, We hand the rock to an adult participant, typically a teacher or 1979. I chaperone. They are asked to pass the object around so that students experience its weight and texture. A minute or two later the ball is Michael Zwelling has been an interpretive park ranger with the National started on its way around the group. Park Service since 2012. He presents a variety of nature and history pro- grams, and also conducts planetarium programs for school groups and the Since our planetarium programs typically feature what can be general public. found in that night’s sky, we will “take” groups to a planet or two and March 2016 Planetarian 59 Bangkok Planetarium Science Centre for Education Khlong Toei District Bangkok, Thailand Ushering the Bangkok Planetarium Co., Ltd, the parent company of Siam TC Technology, de- to the 21st Century scribed the process of bringing the Bangkok Planetarium into By the Bangkok Planetarium Staff the new age. “It took 180 days for us to renovate the theater,” he said. “First, the Digistar 5 software is now used to control the digital projectors. The software is quite powerful and al- What do you do when your mid-20th-century-vintage lows the planetarium staff to project both stars in real-time planetarium is in need of an update? As many other facili- and pre-rendered movies. Next was selecting the Christie ties are doing these days, we at the Bangkok Planetarium at Boxer projectors, which are a good choice to improve image the Science Center for Education wanted to do a tune-up on projection. They are the best quality systems, designed for the aging facility. high brightness and excellent durability, suitable for theaters “We wanted to combine the best of the old facility with and large planetariums. Their lenses were designed by E&S to the modern visualization capability of fulldome video,” said have an extra wide angle so that the projectors can throw a Mr. Parin Tanawong, our education officer in charge of the wider image than normal projectors. “ planetarium, and its main show presenter. “The theater was Our theater’s infrastructure benefitted from a complete in need of a complete makeover. Many of our systems had makeover that changed its utilitarian 1960s look to that of a become decrepit, and the infrastructure needed upgrading.” modern theater space bursting with color and boasting com- Our planetarium, the oldest in Thailand, is under the Min- fortable seats. Along with updated electrical systems and fire istry of Education and we have been operating with a Zeiss protection, and a new lighting system, the theater gained a 5.1 Mark IV star projector and other systems since opening in surround system that sends sound out to the 280-seat theater. 1964. Our Science Center Acting Director Mrs. Tatiya Jaiboon The seats are divided into three zones with different backrest described the theater renovation as a much-needed major angles. This arrangement gives everyone in the house a good project. “Updating the theater presented large challenges,” viewing angle. she said. “We wanted to keep the Zeiss projector but also Sound absorption panels covered in a rainbow of colors wanted to install a new 4K fulldome digital system. We did and lit by a specialized light system surround the outer pe- not have much room to work in, which was a challenge for rimeter of the theater. “The room’s decoration scheme is our contractors.” called “Aurora,” said Mr. Rattanakamonporn. “We encour- The resulting update gives Mr. Tanawong and our fellow aged colorful decorations because the place usually attracts show presenters a whole new suite of tools to present the students and young people. It gives them a fresh, new expe- stars to planetarium audiences. “This new digital projection rience.” system allows us to provide in-depth knowledge of the lat- (See more of the unique aurora decoration scheme and est discoveries and astronomical happenings to our audienc- breadth of the overall renovation in a time-lapse video avail- es,” said Mrs. Jaiboon. “Presenting the latest discoveries, such able online at www.es.com/Bangkok) as high-res planetary surfaces of Pluto from the New Hori- (Continues on page 69) zons mission, is now easily accomplished with Digistar Cloud sharing. We can use Digistar’s Show Builder to create live pre- sentations easily and update them frequently. The new pro- jectors will be used alongside with the existing Zeiss opto-me- chanical projector which has served us well for many years, in order to create even more projection effectiveness. In addi- tion, it will be used for projecting astronomy movies.” A peek behind the scenes of a renovation To accomplish the renovation project, we contracted with Siam TC Technology Co., LTD, a local Thai company, which partners with Evans & Sutherland on planetarium installa- tions. E&S carefully considered how to integrate a new 4K projection system without casting shadows from the exist- ing Zeiss. They successfully installed Digistar 5 with dual cen- ter-mounted Christie Boxers that project over the Zeiss with- Construction crews create space for the under-floor wiring con- out any shadows. duit to the theater’s center space. All photos courtesy the Bang- Mr. Takorn Rattanakamonporn, CEO of Ditto (Thailand) kok Planetarium. 60 Planetarian March 2016 The moment Heaven and Earth are set in motion by the simple tap of a fi nger. This is the moment we work for. // PRESENTATIONS MADE BY ZEISS The third powerdome generation facilitates operation considerably. All functions can be controlled in real time, no matter what kind of browser-supporting terminal devices you use. Call up shows from anywhere under the planetarium dome. Present your skies wirelessly in interaction with your audience. www.zeiss.com/planetariums March 2016 Planetarian 61 Data to Dome Science & Data Visualization Task Force Mark SubbaRao Adler Planetarium 1300 South Lake Shore Drive Chicago, Illinois 60091 USA msubbarao@adlerplanetarium.org Writing for Data to Dome this issue is Daniel R. Tell Morrison Planetarium California Academy of Sciences San Francisco, California 94118 USA dtell@calacademy.org The Morrison Planetarium, through events like its Benjamin Dean Astronomy Lecture Series and Earth Update program, regularly has the opportunity to work directly with researchers to bring their data into the planetarium environment. Often this requires wrangling their research, processing their datasets and convincing them to give up powerpoint slides and experience the planetarium environment. Explore some of the broad research topics covered, the tools used and some of the personal experiences bringing data to the dome. Planetariums, from their inception, have been about data visualiza- Often a researcher’s slide-based presentation would be augmented tion. For most of their history (including the history of mechanical with one or two topical dome visualizations. As staff expertise with planetariums, stretching back to the Antikythera mechanism) it was the planetarium systems increased, the ability to ingest the research- all about visualizing one dataset: the optical night sky, including the er’s own data and an increased amount of the show was presented us- position of the visible stars, sun, moon and planets. ing the dome—leading up to, by mid-2014, occasional lectures that The introduction of digital dome allowed the unprecedented abili- were entirely done using the dome environment. ty to immersively experience any dataset, vastly expanding the power The content presented in these lectures is widely varied, and have of the planetarium to visualize and inspire. required Morrison staff to work with a variety of data. The Experience The Morrison Planetarium at the California Academy of Scienc- Engineering team specializes in adapting content to the Morrison’s re- es may be known for its visualization background in its pre-rendered altime software packages, including Microsoft WorldWide Telescope, productions, and frequently works directly with researchers to ensure Sciss’s Uniview, and Sky-Skan’s DigitalSky2 software. accuracy of data that visually conveys the correct concepts to audi- In some cases, working with a researcher data can be relatively sim- ences. This can be seen in the collaborations with zoologists that drove ple. Jacqueline Faherty of the Carnegie Institute and American Muse- many of the animal animations and datasets in the Morrison’s most re- um of Natural History, for example, provided the Academy with ob- cent production, Habitat Earth: Living in a Connected World. servational data from her research on rogue planets. With simple right But the Morrison extends its collaboration with researchers beyond ascension, declination, and parallax values for her observations, the its pre-rendered productions. Throughout the year, regularly-sched- Morrison was used, for the first time, to visualize her data in 3D dimen- uled realtime planetarium programs bring researchers, and their data, sional space and let her and her audience fly through her dataset (and into the dome environment to interact directly with the public. combine with others—including known planets orbiting stars, and Two particular programs series, the Benjamin Dean Astronomy Lec- known brown dwarfs), allowing her to better take her science story ture and the Earth Update, each provide a monthly opportunity for re- from mere rows and columns in a chart to a vivid experience. searchers to present in the dome theater. Other times, the data can take weeks of intense processing. In June 2014, NASA Ames Researchers Eldar Noe Dobrea and Jeffery Moore The wide range of astronomy foci took academy audiences on a “live” flight tour of the planet Mars in The Dean Lectures, as their full title suggests, focus on astronomy high resolution. The pair provided the Academy team with areas of in- topics, ranging from history of astronomy to cosmology. The Earth terest on the planet Mars—current rover landing sites, and a variety of Updates are a more varied program. Initially modeled on the Morri- potential future targets, including glacial sites and the remains of riv- son’s similar monthly Universe Update, these shows originally focused erbeds that tell the hydrologic history of Mars (including Jezero Cra- on earth science and climate news of the past month, but over the last ter and its delta feature—now the intended landing site for the Mars two years has grown into a venue to leverage the academy’s internal 2020 rover). researchers and external partners to tell personal stories of their work The engineering team combined high resolution global maps from and how these fit into the bigger picture of global changes. NASA, the United States Geological Survey, and others with individual Since the Morrison’s 2008 renovation and reopening as a digital planetarium, the Dean Lecture series has taken place in the planetari- um and made use of the dome theater. Presenters are often researchers in From talk presented at the Great Lakes Planetarium Association Conference, astronomy and related sciences from universities around the country. October 14-17, 2015, in Grand Rapids, Michigan, USA. 62 Planetarian March 2016 Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter Context Camera and HiRise strips to fly tially, the engineering team, and Tim Horn, then the Academy’s pro- audiences down to these areas in sub-meter resolution—placing them ducer for Climate/Earth Science data, worked primarily with KMLs, right on the surface of Mars. This leveraged knowledge of Geographic the native format for Google Earth. This allowed importation of late- Information Systems (GIS) to integrate data from a variety of sources breaking images, like Hurricane Sandy moving up the eastern sea- and resolutions into a cohesive, flowing experience. board; polygonal regions, like the expected range of species; and point- The Academy’s growing GIS knowledge, especially with other plan- based data distributions, such as Academy research and collection sites ets, also has been used in other presentations to explore the moon in or citizen scientist observations. detail, along with other bodies, such as Mercury and the moons of Ju- However, limitations of the KML format began to make these pro- piter and Saturn. Ongoing collaborations with NASA Ames led to the grams unwieldy. A presentation by Stan Blum, the Academy’s bio- Academy hosting a special session on planetary geology during the informatics officer, detailing the Academy’s collaboration with the American Geophysical Union conference in December of 2014, featur- Global Biodiversity Information Facility (GBIF), involving pulling in ing newly-released composite maps of the surface of Vesta from the millions of datapoints, which proved too much for the KML import Dawn mission. features of the software to smoothly handle. But not all experiences take place in 3D space. The Academy cele- Increased GIS knowledge and the ability to leverage free software, brated the Hubble Space Telescope’s 25th anniversary with a lecture such as Open Geospatial Consortium compliant programs like Quan- from Paul Scowen of Arizona State University. Adding several high- tum GIS and Mapserver, led to better ability to handle georeferenced resolution images to Microsoft’s WorldWide telescope, Scowen took data and allowed the Academy team to better pull together stories. the audience on detailed tours of some of Hubble’s most inspiring and But getting back to those spider genitals: Lina Almeida was a grad stu- awesome observations—including the recently-released update of the dent at the Academy, working with Curator of Arachnology Charles Eagle Nebula’s Pillars of Creation. Audiences in the dome zoomed in Griswold, studying a group of spiders with unique genital features. on the full resolution images and explored the intricacies in detail, as Collected only from South America and South Africa, their geographic Scowen told a stunning story of what we’ve learned about the birth of stars and the nature of their nurseries from Hubble’s observations. WorldWide Telescope: built-in data support Below left: Mike Brown presents at the Of particular use in constructing this presentation was WorldWide California Academy of Telescope’s support for the Astronomy Visualization Metadata Stan- Sciences; below right: dard (AVM), which records the position and size of astronomical imag- the RAVE survey data es (as well as a variety of other details, such as observation date, instru- made visual; right: University of Minnesota ment, wavelength and colorization). This allowed Academy staff to yield/yield gap data, via rapidly and accurately place these images in the larger context of the earthstat.org. All imag- sky, and move in a smooth zoom from viewing an entire hemisphere es courtesy the author. of the sky to the tiny field of view these features occupy. It’s hoped distribution, combined with molecular genomics, combine to tell the that increased adoption of AVM among researchers, and increased in- story of the evolution and diversification of these animals over mil- gestion ability by planetarium software, will make it easier for anyone lions of years as the ancient supercontinent of Gondwana rifted apart. to take incredible imagery from a variety of space missions and create Griswold’s own research on spiders—particularly those of the “Af- powerful experiences with it in their theaters. romontane” (Africa’s tall, cooler, wetter, mountain-top climates) is also In general, astronomical data is easy to deal with in a planetarium. a small story that’s part of our dynamic world. Flying around the globe In most cases the software driving the dome theater is intended for as- in the planetarium, one can see the Gondwanan distribution of his tronomy, and can fairly readily ingest the data—some times with only species, but combined with topography and climate data in the dome a little massaging and conversion work. Creatively visualizing earth and his active, enthusiastic narration, audiences saw closely-related and climate data for the Earth Update program—especially as research- spiders isolated by hundreds or thousands of miles of terrain they find er collaboration became more of its focus—proved to be another great- inhospitable. er challenge. A story about spider genitals doesn’t seem to immediate- Griswold’s data tells not just the story of continental drift, but also of ly to benefit from the planetarium. ice ages, when cooler, wetter climates allowed these spiders to traverse A few planetarium software packages, including all three realtime the continent. These stories aren’t just told on geologic scales—they’re packages used at the Academy, include some support for GIS data. Ini- (Continues on next page March 2016 Planetarian 63 DynamicEarth_8_5x11_WithAwards_Option01.pdf 1 10/21/2013 11:07:46 AM (Data, continued from page 63) also told on the scale of our own lifetimes. For example, Senior Curator of Entomology Dave NN AA RR RR AA TT EE DD BB YY LL II AA MM NN EE EE SS OO NN Kavanaugh watched over 40 years as his ani- mal of interest—the ice beetles found in Amer- ica’s Rocky Mountains—climbed to higher and higher altitudes in their icy islands and, in some cases, disappear all together as the glaciers and snowpack they relied on melted away. Climate change is only one of the stories DDD YYY NNN AAA MMM III CCC easily told through presentations like these. Associate Curator of Microbiology Shannon Bennett used the planetarium to present on her specialty: zoonotic diseases. Zoonoses are spread from animals to humans—the most classic example being malaria, transmitted by mosquitos. This disease may be the largest kill- er of humans throughout history. As humans encroach on more native envi- ronments, our contact with wild animals in- EE xx pp ll oo rr ii nn gg EE aa rr tt hh ’’ ss CC ll ii mm aa tt ee EE nn gg ii nn ee creases, raising the risk of zoonoses spreading. Combined with the rapidity of airline travel, these diseases can then rapidly spread around the world. Top: Looking at GIS data in QuantumGIS; photo of actually working with the data. Bennett worked with an organization called HealthMap (healthmap.org) to provide the ing their efficiency), or being converted into soaring around the world with the multispec- planetarium with georeferenced, time-series ethanol for cars and other industrial products. tral eyes of a satellite, audiences can have a C data on the outbreaks of several zoonotic dis- Foley’s message is an inspiring one, howev- shared, immersive experience unavailable eases, including Dengue, Zika, Chikungunya, er: with better land management, water, and anywhere else. M West Nile Virus, and Ebola. Bennett reprised fertilizer use, a little more thought in diets With some work and research it’s becoming Y her program in December of 2015, adding data (Foley hates to tell anyone what they should easier to integrate new data into planetarium from one of the most common zoonoses—in- eat, but does point out, less meat always helps) software. The California Academy of Scienc- CM fluenza—spread to humans from birds. and a lot lest waste, Earth’s crop and pasture- es takes advantage of its position as a combi- MY lands—now the largest ecosystem on the plan- nation research institution and public-facing CY Food data: how much grows? et, and one humans have created—can feed museum to bring its own research directly to A culmination of the increased expertise our existing and growing populations with- its audiences, but these same opportunities CMY with GIS and the ability of the planetarium out further damaging the natural environ- may be available to many other institutions. K to show it in an immersive, engaging fashion ments around them. Membership statistics from regional organi- was an Earth Update in August of 2015 with zations, like the Great Lakes Planetarium Asso- John Foley, executive director of the Acad- Visual data inspires everyone ciation, show many planetariums are part of emy of Sciences and former director of the These stories highlight only a small handful a college campus or museum. Others, includ- University of Minnesota’s Institute of the En- of the dozens of researcher-led presentations ing stand-alone planetariums or those in high vironment. Foley’s area of expertise is food— that have taken place in the Morrison Plane- schools, frequently find they benefit from pre- how can we grow enough of it to feed the peo- tarium. In almost every case, not only do audi- senting a variety of sciences in the dome the- ple on Earth today, and its future population? ences leave inspired by the direct interaction aters. Learning to work directly with research- The University of Minnesota’s datasets, fur- and personal stories of the individuals actual- ers in a variety of sciences and directly import nished through earthstat.org and direct col- ly collecting and analyzing the data, but the their data into the dome environment can laboration with Foley’s former team, tell that researchers also frequently find themselves create incredible collaboration opportunities story stunningly: mostly, just stop wasting the inspired by the planetarium environment. Al- that expand the awareness and understanding food that’s grown already. Foley travelled the most universally, they express their awe at the of the audiences, researchers and those of us world with the planetarium audience, show- new, comprehensive view gained into their behind the dome doing the work, too. I ing where water and fertilizer are wasted, or own work by seeing it in the moving, immer- where naturally-fertile croplands underper- sive environment of the dome theater. Dan Tell is Senior Planetarium Systems Support form due to poor management. Planetariums are experiential theaters— Engineer for Morrison Planetarium (and other immersive venues) at the California Academy A trip over the American Midwest—one of they let us see the world around in new ways of Sciences. With a Jovian year’s experience in the great breadbaskets of the world—illustrat- beyond our individual perspective. The clas- the planetarium industry, Dan has worked to ed one of the largest ways cropland is used for sic planetarium may have done this by accel- improve the availability of content, resourc- something other than food, namely a dataset erating time, travelling to see the skies around es and production tools and techniques to the showing the fraction of calories grown that the world, or even connecting urban audienc- community, demonstrated by his contribu- tions to the Uniview Users Group, Digistar Us- are fed to humans makes clear the productive es with skies they no longer see. Modern plan- ers Group and workshops on open source soft- corn and soybean fields of the midwest don’t etariums can do this in a range of ways with a ware for planetarium production. He is a Fellow reach human mouths. Instead, many of them wider variety of data. and current secretary of the Great Lakes Plane- are used for animal feed (significantly reduc- Plummeting into the depths of space or tarium Association. 64 Planetarian March 2016 DynamicEarth_8_5x11_WithAwards_Option01.pdf 1 10/21/2013 11:07:46 AM NN AA RR RR AA TT EE DD BB YY LL II AA MM NN EE EE SS OO NN DDD YYY NNN AAA MMM III CCC EE xx pp ll oo rr ii nn gg EE aa rr tt hh ’’ ss CC ll ii mm aa tt ee EE nn gg ii nn ee C M Y CM MY CY CMY K March 2016 Planetarian 65 Fulldome Matters Carolyn Collins Petersen About Fulldome & Immersive Media Loch Ness Productions Post Office Box 924 Nederland, Colorado 80466 USA +1 303-642-7250 carolyn@lochnessproductions.com Entertainment in the dome There have been many hotly-debated topics in the fulldome and ucation can entertain). Those define the niche we inhabit as dome pro- planetarium community over the years. Two long-simmering argu- fessionals. ments focus on live versus pre-recorded presentations and entertain- The content we show in our facilities is largely multimedia, mixing ment content versus educational topics. That second one is intriguing, music, art, imagery, and spoken word into a coherent whole. In most since it seems to assume that content can be one or the other, but not of our theaters, however, the mix is still largely aimed at educating au- both. Or, to put it another way: if something is educational, it can’t pos- diences about science (astronomy, physics, geology). But some people sibly be entertaining (and vice versa). also use entertainment pieces to teach and enhance. So, it seems that the whole “entertainment versus education” debate is really over. Our domes can be used for any type of content and experience that works in them—and dividing them into artificial categories does nobody any favors. Fulldome, immersive content exists that is primarily entertainment, but as I describe below, some also serves an educational purpose. Some- times this type of content is referred to as “edutainment.” With adroit applications of animations and music, such topics as mathematics and physics can be made as attractive visually (and aurally) as astronomy and space science are. For just one example, you have only to peruse the LNP Fulldome Show Compendium (www.lochnessproductions.com/lfsc/lfsc.html) and sort by “genre” for Arts & Entertainment to see the growing reper- toire of shows that fit the bill under both subjects. Above: In MUSICA: Why is the Universe Beautiful, artist and composer With the advent of virtual reality, we will likely see a form of con- combines the beauty of astronomical imagery and original music tent that combines both and can be used in people’s homes, school with the concepts in physics and math to bring audiences a great- er appreciation of the cosmos. classrooms, or other public arenas such as museums. The IMERSA Sum- Below: The poster for Celestial Rhythms, performed in 1985, creat- mit this month will focus in part on VR and its connection to fulldome ed by Hayden Planetarium’s staff artist at the time, Brian Sullivan. and immersive venues and uses, and I suspect that we will hear more about the mix of education and entertainment in VR as time goes by. The big questions What about entertainment in the dome? Is it a viable use of our full- dome spaces? Of course it is. It has been from nearly the beginning. In 1933, just a few years after the Carl Zeiss company unveiled its first opto-mechanical planetarium at the Deutsches Museum in Mu- nich, the Fels Planetarium in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania heralded the grand opening of its newly-installed theater and Zeiss instrument with much pomp and circumstance, including a string quartet concert and a talk titled “The Importance of the Planetarium to Science, to Educa- tion, and to Recreation,” given by astronomer Heber D. Curtis1. Early on, people saw the possibilities for art and education in the dome. In the years since, audiences have enjoyed concerts, plays, and other artistic activities under domes around the world. The venera- ble Zeiss Planetarium in Jena, Germany (now the world’s oldest con- tinuously operating planetarium theater) hosts a fulldome festival each year showcasing an amazing array of fulldome videos and live A quick search on Google Scholar turns up dozens of articles about performances on and under its dome that inform, delight, and amaze. the use of entertainment (in the form of games, music, art, and anima- (fulldome-festival.de) tions) to teach, and not just in the domed theater. Furthermore, when I was doing my graduate work in journalism and mass communica- 1 This event was reported in Popular Astronomy, Volume XLI, No.10. You can read tion, I read a number of media studies that probed the use of entertain- the whole article by J. Stokley at articles.adsabs.harvard.edu//full/1933PA.41..5 ment (movies, TV shows, etc.) to teach a variety of subjects. So, there’s 35S/0000535.000.html clearly recognition that entertainment can teach (and maybe that ed- (Continues on page 68) 66 Planetarian March 2016 March 2016 Planetarian 67 (Fulldome, continued from page 66) So, it shouldn’t come as any surprise that enter- tainment programs are still being created. In these digital days, both pre-rendered shows and live per- formances take on new forms and present excit- ing possibilities for teaching and entertaining, all in one. Examples of pre-rendered fulldome entertainment In the past few years, we’ve seen the rise of pre-rendered entertainment works such as Cha- os and Order, Magic of the Otherworld, White Room, MUSICA: Why Is the Universe Beautiful?, R+J, SpacePark360, Waiting Far Away, Molecularium, Cos- mic Dance, and many others. Each of these shows is an artistic endeavor and demonstrates skillful choreography that integrates the work of anima- tors, musicians, and writers into a fully realized en- tertainment piece. In some cases, the intent of the work is also to teach, as Molecularium or MUSICA do, for example. They weave scientific elements Left: Spontaneous Fantasia creator J-Walt, wield- (atomic structure and physics, respectively) with ar- ing his custom anitar during a performance. tistic elements and the results are memorable pieces Image by Trey Stokes. Above: A sample of J- that invoke awe, wonder, and learning. Walt’s real-time dome animations. Image by Steven T. Savage. Performance arts and dome space In 1985, three very talented space musicians and soundtrack composers got together to do a show called Celestial performed on a one-of-a-kind instrument he developed called the Ani- Rhythms at the New York Hayden Planetarium. Barry Hayes, Mark C. tar (from “animation guitar”). Petersen, and Jonn Serrie presented a night of music, stars, and space ex- Perhaps among the most active groups exploring all facets of the en- ploration in an experience that was among the first of its kind (you can tertainment and teaching space of immersive content today is the So- read more about it in the Liner Notes section at lochnessproductions. ciety for Arts and Technology (SAT) (sat.qc.ca) in Montreal, Canada. It com/geo/gcr/gcr.html). was founded in 1996 to explore and develop immersive technologies, Since this happened in the pre-CG animation days, the musicians augmented reality, and creative use of high-speed networks. It’s also an and the Hayden staff relied on available elements: the Zeiss instrument arts center, supporting the next generation of artists, creators, and re- for the stars and Hayden special effects projectors to show visuals as the searchers who create immersive works using the products of the dig- guys played their music. Since then, both Mark and Jonn have gone on ital age. to do other concerts in the dome, with varying levels of visualization The group has a 4,400-square-meter development space, including available to them. a modular dome filled with high-end visualization and sound equip- Live arts performances continue today. Musicians and artists have ment. Each year, SAT hosts the Immersion Experience (IX) Symposium, access to (and in some cases they create) some amazingly complex where the best and brightest share their work and their research into immersive visualizations for their shows. For example, at the IMER- different ways immersive spaces can be used for entertainment. SA Summit 2016, attendees will be treated to the artistic and musical Kenji Williams, the creator and producer of Bella Gaia (winner of talents of J-Walt Adamczyk, creator of Spontaneous Fantasia (www. spontaneousfantasia.com). J-Walt is an accomplished animator, inter- Left: Dr. David Grinspoon giving a science talk in 2011 between sets by the active designer, filmmaker, music composer, and VR pioneer. His per- House Band of the Universe at Gates Planetarium. Photo by Dan Neafus. formances combine aspects of animation, video games, music, theater, Below: Audiences at the California Academy of Sciences’ Morrison Plan- dance, and architecture into a seamless new art form. J-Walt’s shows are etarium during a performance of Bella Gaia by Kenji Williams. Courtesy Kenji Williams. 68 Planetarian March 2016 best soundtrack at the 2014 Macao Fulldome Festival), designed his in his life, as told by the astronomer. program to evoke the “overview effect” that astronauts experience as In January, Fiske Planetarium (University of Colorado) premiered a they orbit our home planet. In the live version of this show, he per- three-week run of a dome play called Vera Rubin: Bringing the Dark to forms violin music against a backdrop of gorgeous imagery and data Light. It was a collaboration between Fiske and the local Boulder En- visualizations of Earth. It’s also available as a pre-rendered fulldome semble Theatre Company. It explored the work of astronomer Vera Ru- video. bin, through a dream sequence where she confronts the mysteries of Live performance has even included science talks woven into perfor- the galaxies. The production combined performances by actors with mance art. The Denver Museum of Nature and Science has featured the state-of-the-art immersive visualizations. Fiske plans to run The Kepler unique performances of Dr. David Grinspoon (founder of the House Story in April. Band of the Universe), who performed with his band in the dome and provided live science lectures as “interstitials” between pieces. It’s all good The rise of VJ performances in the dome enables unique creations Of course, there are many planetarians using their domes for en- by such artists as VJ Spooky (who has performed at the Fort Collins tertainment via Dome Club nights and other events—and hopeful- Otterbox Theater) and Android Jones (androidjones.com), whose work ly educating their audiences, too. As I said above, due to the fantastic was seen at last year’s Fiske Fulldome Festival. capabilities of our fulldome systems, the old argument about educa- VJ is short for video jockey. Much like DJs tion versus entertainment is very likely dead. who used to “spin disks” on the radio and in Through the use of innovative live and pre- clubs, VJs (who started out on MTV and then rendered content, if we’re all doing our jobs emigrated to the club scene) take video materi- right, we can both educate and entertain, and al and create live performance art in the dome. our audiences won’t know which is which! I These events have been featured at past IMER- SA summits, where the VJs manipulated show clips, star fields, and music to create an unpre- dictable, one-of-a-kind experience for the audi- ence. Theater in the dome The planetarium dome has always wel- Above: A VJ performance at the SAT comed live theater. With the advent of immer- Immersion Experience IX Symposium sive visualization capabilities, collaborations in 2015. Photo by Dan Neafus. Above between planetarium professionals and actors right: A dome play about astronomer Vera Rubin used the unique visualiza- can be quite compelling. Among the most re- tion capabilities of the Fiske Planetar- cent theater works are The Kepler Story, which ium. Courtesy Boulder Ensemble The- premiered at Morrison Planetarium at the Cal- atre Company and Fiske Planetarium. ifornia Academy of Sciences in 2013. It com- Right: Actor Nina Wise portrayed as- tronomer Johannes Kepler under the bined visualizations with a live actor portray- dome at Morrison Planetarium during ing the famous astronomer Johannes Kepler. the run of The Kepler Story. Image cour- Each scene brings to life memorable moments tesy Nina Wise. (Under One Dome, continued from page 60) Left: Parin Tanawong at the Digistar 5 control panel; the Bangkok Planetarium now features a 4K Digistar 5 with two Christie Boxer and Zeiss Mark IV projectors, with au- rora-themed perimeter wall paneling and new lighting. A new look for the public, our hope for the future happy with the new experience. We wanted to have them learn as- The Bangkok Planetarium reopened on January 5, 2016, showing the tronomy in more depth than could be achieved with our existing op- E&S fulldome show Experience the Aurora. Our mix of live shows and to-mechanical projector. Now, if we want to see Saturn at 8 p.m. to- fulldome videos will fill out the upcoming schedule. Our target audi- night, we are able to use the Digistar 5 projector to show the latest ences comprise both school groups and members of the public. Our images of Saturn and better educate the audience about this planet, or typical show format includes a live sky show before each fulldome anything in the sky that you can dream of. We believe our successful show. The flexibility of Digistar 5 allows us to create engaging shows renovation and modernization helps us to achieve that goal. This new that all our presenters can use, and as an added benefit, we are able to planetarium is the answer to kids’ curiosity and what we think attracts focus on interacting with our audiences. them to learn more about astronomy. Our reopening has been very successful and our audiences are quite Visit the Bangkok Planetarium Website at www.sciplanet.org. I March 2016 Planetarian 69 International News Lars Petersen Orion Planetarium Søvej 36, Jels 6630 Rødding, Denmark +45 8715 7370 larsp@orion.au.dk www.orionplanetarium.dk Dear fellow planetarians: Stars were then demonstrated on a cloth um- oured guest of Kostroma was the test cosmo- I am thrilled to see how our family of plan- brella dome by a home-produced projector naut Sergey Revin. In 2012 he flew 125 days etariums is constantly being innovative, from two semi-spheres with openings and on the pilot-controlled transport ship Soyuz not just in the important production of new electric bulbs inside. TMA-04M. shows and events, but also in the develop- Over the years K. Matzukov became a main Kurgan. The celebration of Space Days was ment of new concepts and ways to engage the acting person: a leader, lecturer, engineer, and held in the planetarium of the regional natu- public, letting the dome be a space ship of the scientific consultant. His scientific interest ral history museum. A difficult test, prepara- mind, as so perfectly put by Thomas Kraupe, was the motion of comets; his thesis research tion for the flight to Mars, awaited little guests IPS past president. was devoted to Comet Schaummass. A num- during the cognitive playing program. The For this section I’m indebted to contribu- ber of the expeditions arranged by him ob- opening of the exhibition of pictures “Such tions from Vadim Belov, Alex Delivorias, Aase served the meteor streams of the comet of an incomprehensible planet” also took place. R. Jacobsen, Björn Voss, Loris Ramponi, Marc Gallilei. Scientific surveys, supervisions, and Children represented the most enigmatic Moutin, John Hare, Bart Benjamin, Rachel expeditions with students got organized from planet in pictures as well. Children and adults Thompson, and Ignacio C. Pinal. the planetarium, which has become a science drew a message to Martians, making an effort We will begin this tour around the globe at communication center. to tell aliens about earthly professions. high eastern longitudes. After a lifetime of hich achievements, K. Guests learned about the trip of Voyager Matzukov is still on stream. He climbs to the and the gold record for extraterrestrial astron- Russian Planetarium Association 5th floor to the planetarium, “to the stars,” omers. They also made bookmarks from paper Kemerovo. In October the planetarium of equally with his grandchildren. By all rights, with the images of stars and rockets, and en- Kemerovo State University (KSU) celebrated he remains the main astronomer of Kemerovo. joyed a photo exhibition of landscapes called the 85th anniversary of its founder. Kuz’ma Kirov. All-Russian XIII Tsiolkovsky Youth “Whims of weather” by professionals and am- Matzukov organized the field of astronomic readings took place during the Week of Space ateurs from Russia, Belarus, the Ukraine, Isra- supervisions and planetarium at KSU in 1956. in October. Students from 17 regions of the el, Germany, and Spain. The role of the atmo- country took part. The diploma of the 1 de- sphere of Earth came into the question in the gree was conferred for the project “Research of lecture hall. Two video program, Lightning as stability terms of flight of multi-stage rockets a Miracle of Nature and Aurora, were shown. models.” Nizhny Novgorod. Test cosmonaut Oleg Kostroma. Many different activities de- Artem’ev visited Nizhny Novgorod Planetar- voted to Space Week took place in all edu- ium in October. cational establishments of the region. More The state corporation Rosatom conducts than 32,000 Kostromian school children, and “Days of science and communications” in dif- also teachers and school children from nine ferent cities to attract the attention of young other regions of the country, took part. The people to the sciences and to disrobe popular session of direct connection with the Russian myths. Rosatom conducted such an event in MKS crew took place oin 5 October. The hon- Nizhny Novgorod in 26-28 November. Meet- RPA: Cosmonaut O. Artem’ev in the scien- tific-methodical depart- ment at Nizhny Novgorod. RPA: Kuz’ma Matzukov. Courtesy of D. Sergueev. Courtesy of V. Zharinov. 70 Planetarian March 2016 ings with famous science writers, scientists, celebrations with a special program dedicated journalists, and leaders of mass media took to Josip Juraj Strossmayer, a famous Croatian place on different grounds of the city. political reformer and benefactor. The event The four most interesting meetings for peo- lasted well after midnight and received more ple taken away by space took place in the than 1,100 visitors. planetarium. A well-known blogger on space In February, Rijeka’s topics, V. Egorov, presented the lecture “How digital planetarium pre- to study planets.” He also spoke about the miered the animated film study of Mars by the robots Opportunity and The Little Star That Could Curiosity. A. Khokhlov, the author of the pop- dubbed in Croatian for its ular scientific almanac for children Want to Croatian audience. The know everything, gave a review of the unre- story about an average alized projects of again landing people on the yellow star on a search for moon and Mars and the creation of lunar bas- planets of its own to warm es. He also spoke about the plans of mastering and protect proved very the moon, and children put very interesting popular for its targeted questions to him. audience, i.e. mainly chil- Novosibirsk. The opening of new corps of dren and families. the State University was the primary objec- Also in February, on tive of the visit of Dmitry Livanov, minister Valentine’s Day, the spe- for education and science of RF, on 17 Novem- cial live digital show Ro- ber. He also gave a speech on the third all-Rus- mance under the Stars fo- sian convention School Mathematical Educa- cused on the night sky EMPA: Above, The tion. The minister declared that the project of above the city of Rije- Night of Museums the planetarium had won 38 participants of ka for that month of the attracted many visi- the first town-planning competition at the year, discovering at the tors to the Rijeka As- beginning of 2015 by the Ministry of Building same time some of the ro- tronomical Center. Right, the Rijeka’s in the nomination of social objects. mantic legends behind planetarium offers During the visit, D. Livanov got acquaint- some of the winter con- various education- ed with the Novosibirsk planetarium. Its di- stellations. al and fun programs rector, Serguey Maslikov, spoke about the Set for March’s sched- for children. Curtesy status of the establishment in the system of ule are many events, most of Rijeka Sport Ltd. additional education of children, about dif- importantly the celebra- ferent research conducted by employees and tions of the International young astronomers, about the interest of cit- Day of Planetaria, which izens in the evening and also morning obser- include many events, live vations. Honoured guests watched a portion shows, and performanc- of a 3D program and looked at the education- es for both the youngest al rooms. That day there were children’s study visitors and the older au- groups working on intellectual “robototekh- dience. niks” and space biology (experiments on the The Eugenides Plane- DNA of a banana). Guests stayed on with the tarium in Athens, Greece astronomy interest group. The teacher, A. Ni- celebrated the winter sol- kiforov, during short conversation was able to stice with repeated screen- carry to the minister the idea about the neces- ings of the show An immortal telescope, creat- the planetarium that made it one of the finest sity of introducing astronomy as a subject for ed by Fanis Matsopoulos. The show highlights institutions of its kind worldwide. school curriculum. the story behind the almost 150-year-old At the same event, the Academy of Athens The project of Children’s Park of Science Newall refracting telescope of the Observato- presented the same award to Dennis Simopou- and Technologies was presented thereafter. ry of Athens, which was the largest telescope los, emeritus director of the Eugenides Plane- S. Maslikov presented the extension model of of its kind in the world when it was made. tarium, for his overall contribution to the the park with the general utility area of 22,000 The president of the National Observato- popularization and the public understand- square meters. Various types of activity are ex- ry of Athens (NOA), Kanaris Tsiganos, intro- ing of astronomy, as well as for his exemplary pected to develop there, such as a museum, duced the first screening of the show with a management of the Eugenides Planetarium. technical workshops, educational classrooms public lecture focusing on NOA’s contribu- Finally, in mid-February, the Eugenides for different sciences, conference halls, build- tion to science and society during the past Planetarium premiered its latest digital pro- ings for scientific experiments, and more. 170 years. The second screening of the show duction, titled Life in The Universe, a show was introduced by Stella Kafka, director of the examining the exciting possibility that life European/Mediterranean American Association of Variable Star Observ- might exist elsewhere in the Cosmos. Starting Planetarium Association ers (AAVSO). with the search for microorganisms in some of The Rijeka Astronomical Center in Croatia On 22 December, the Academy of Athens the moons of our star system, the show high- welcomed the New Year in the digital plane- honored Leonidas Demetriades-Eugenides, lights the most important methods for discov- tarium with the live show Safari through the president of the Eugenides Foundation, with ering exoplanets and examines what might Solar System. In the end of January, the Cen- its Athens Academy Award for supervising make them habitable and what sort of bio-sig- tre also participated in the Night of Museums the design, expansion, and modernization of natures may indicate the presence of life. March 2016 Planetarian 71 Society of the German Speaking We will report in more detail on both devel- Planetaria opments in the next Planetarian issues. A new show titled Jules Verne Voyages is Italian Association of Planetaria now running at multiple planetariums. The fantastic stories of Jules Verne have captivat- It is time to participate in the fourth annual ed and inspired generations. Now three full- Planit Prize devoted to a video production, in dome artists—Ralph Heinsohn, Rocco Helm- particular a fulldome show. The target of the chen and Tobias Wiethoff—have worked on video is students from 11 to 14 years. The sub- a project to bring the worlds of Jules Verne to ject matter, other than astronomical topics, is the planetarium dome. The result is the new up to the producer. fulldome show Jules Verne Voyages–Three jour- Technical requirements include domemas- neys through the impossible. ter image files, with .avi and .mp4 video files Embedded in a frame story derived from also allowed. The audio, if applicable, must be. the books From the Earth to the Moon and mp3. For more information on terms and con- Around the Moon, the show takes the audience ditions, please visit the Planit website at www. on three different journeys inspired by the planetario.org and click on Awards. books’ three moon-traveling characters. Ideas All the materials have to be sent to the about travel, discovery, the world we live in, email address: mpremio@planetari.org be- and mankind’s voyage through time are inter- fore 31 March. The first prize is 500€. Partici- woven and interpreted in an artistic and con- pants must be members of Planit, but the as- temporary way. sociation is open to everyone in any country. The show premiered 13 October at Bochum Membership is 50€, and the organization can Planetarium and has subsequently opened at be joined at any time of the year. (For mem- the planetariums in Nürnberg, Glücksburg, bership information, write to mwalter.riva@ NPA: University college students (Celine, Kiel, Cottbus, Wolfsburg, and Mannheim. The gmail.com). Søren, Line and Maria) responsible for the new show went international with its premiere Planit invites other planetarium associa- facebook and web page gathered under the in Nantes, France (the birthplace of Jules tions to organize similar initiatives that in- dome at the Steno Museum, Aarhus, Denmark. Verne) and is due to open in Lucerne and in crease the benefits for members. In fact, the Courtesy of Aase R. Jacobsen. Schwanden, both in Switzerland, among oth- winner’s video will be sent free to all members Nordic Planetarium Association ers, in 2016. The production is available in of Planit, but could be shared between differ- German and French; English and Italian ver- ent planetarium associations interested in the The association has been very fortu- sions are in production. For more informa- idea as well. nate because four multimedia design stu- tion please contact info@julesverneplanetari- The 2016 winner of Two Weeks in Italy dents from the University College Lillebælt, um.com. for an American Planetarium Operator, orga- Odense, Denmark proposed to use NPA as Many German planetariums are in danger, nized by IPS Portable Planetarium Commit- their exam project at the end of 2015, giv- but others are in refurbishment. While three tee in collaboration with the planetariums of ing the opportunity to make a Facebook large planetariums in Germany are still closed Brescia, Perugia, and Gorizia, is Stephen Case page and a new web page for NPA. This was for refurbishment, several smaller planetar- from Strickler Planetarium, Olivet Nazarene done in collaboration with NPA Webmaster iums that mostly offer school shows are still University, Bourbonnais, Illinois, USA. (See Anne Bruwold and President Aase R. Jacob- under threat of being closed down. But there also Mobile News on page 88.) sen. You can visit NPA at www.facebook.com/ are signs that the situation is improving at These weeks represent an original initiative Nordicplaneteriumassociation. The webpage least for some of these planetariums, while from 1995. Since then, a total of 18 American address will be announced. the GDP society is taking steps to convince operators have been involved over the past NPA is also very pleased to announce that administrations and policy makers to ensure 20 years. Other regional associations affiliated the next Nordic Planetarium meeting will be continued operation of these planetariums. with IPS are invited to organize a similar ac- held at the Observatory at Lund University in tivity to promote the exchange between plan- Sweden in the autumn of 2017. In 2019 NPA etarians from different countries. The lessons will meet at Vitenfabrikken, Sandnes in Nor- (Continues on page 74) way. More information on dates, program, etc. will follow. GSP: Still frames from Jules Verne Voyages–Three journeys through the impossible. Courtesy of Ralph Heinsohn, Rocco Helmchen and Tobias Wiethoff. 72 Planetarian March 2016 R the new fulldome highlight of M a rel e c a h 2s e 0 1 6 emotional education www.reef-distribution.com www.softmachine.com Dr. Fischer F. Geise March 2016 Planetarian 73 (International, continued from page 72) seille and Nantes planetariums, a by Stephen Case will be held in three Italian French version of the European cities during the first half of April. Southern Observatory film From Other initiatives of 2016 will be connect- Earth to the Universe has been ed with the International Day of Planetaria produced and recorded. Vincent (www.dayofplanetaria.org) that will be held Jean Victor, from the Planetari- on 13 March 2016. The planetarium of the Mu- um de Nantes, is now the French seum of Sky and Earth, San Giovanni in Per- voice of this dome film about siceto near Bologna, will open the planetari- the solar system and the uni- um dome with free admission. The public will verse. A Spanish translation and be invited to programs running every 30 min- recording also has been done by utes. At the same time, as communicated by Cité de l’espace for its Spanish Marco Cattelan, visitors will be involved in visitors. solar observations and guided through the ex- The Worldwide Planetari- hibition of a permanent collection of meteor- ums Database (WPD) is always ites. IAP: Not only visual observations and digital photos, but also available on the APLF website at During the weekend of 22-24 April, the Ital- drawings of the night sky stir the mind. From the hills near Par- www.aplf-planetariums.info/en. ian Association of Planetaria will meet in Bari ma, Northern Italy. Among the “observers” are an owl (on the A large update is in progress will at Fiera del Levante Planetarium, for the XXXI left) and a fox (on the right). Cortesy of Angelo Omodeo. allow to include large photos of national conference. all planetariums. You will easily April is also the month of Astronomy Week The Cité de l’espace and So Toulouse teams find yours by using the internal search engine promoted by the Ministry of Public Educa- were very pleased to welcome Shawn Laatsch in the middle of the home page. You can send tion and Italian Astronomical Society. on 21-24 November, to allow him to have an recent pictures and any new information From 2-6 May, the national conference of overview of the different locations planned about your installation to Daniel Audeon. the Italian Astronomical Society (www.sait.it), for the 2018 conference: Cité de l’espace facil- An updated design for the page is planned for which includes astronomers and teachers, will ities, hotels in the area, possible sites for the next summer. be held in Rome, and then Italian amateur as- gala dinner, and for tours in or outside Tou- As has been done every year, many French tronomers will meet in Prato from 6-8 May louse. The discussions were very useful and al- planetariums will participate in Printemps for the national conference of the Italian Am- lowed the organizers to take important deci- des Planétariums 2016 (Planetariums Spring ateur Astronomers Union (www.uai.it). sions about key elements of the organization Event) 19-27 March. The idea is to create ani- of such a big event. It also was great for the mations in connection with the spring equi- Society of French Speaking Toulouse team to get to know Shawn, who is nox and then to promote planetarium activi- Planetaria an expert in cooking and a very good adviser ties to the audience. APLF is back with news, after a few months about gastronomy and wines. Be prepared to Following an initiative of the APLF Coun- of silence, due to internal reorganization. have good southwest meals and wines in Tou- cil, in accordance with the national scientif- The APLF Council was partially renewed at louse in two and half years! ic culture project ESTIM-Numérique (ESTIM- the last APLF General Assembly in Reims last Thanks to a collaborative work of different Digital), the French planetariums had the year. A new council representing all regions of French planetariums and driven by the Mar- opportunity to be part of a collaborative web- France, with younger people and as many fe- site where they could upload, view, comment, male as male members, who brings dynam- and share resources designed and produced by ics and enthusiasm to the council and the planetarium teams about scientific culture, association, has been formed. The new mem- bers are: Milène Wendling, head of Stras- bourg Planetarium, Véronique Dubois, head of Nantes Planétarium, Florie Teste from Aix APLF: Left, the Planetariums Spring Event in France. Be- en Provence Planétarium, and Nicolas Fiolet, low, Shawn Laatsch “inspects” the 2020 IPS Conference head of Saint-Omer la Coupole Planetarium. site in Toulouse. Images courtesy Marc Moutin. The French planetarians will meet for their annual APLF conference in Saint-Omer at La Coupole planetarium from 20-22 May (for more information, visit www.lacoupole- france.com). The APLF Council is very enthusiastic to be involved in IPS 2018 conference activi- ties and organization with the Toulouse Cité de l’espace team, and decided soon after the choice of France for this major event to have the APLF 2018 annual meeting merged within the IPS Conference. Beside its implication in the content development for special sessions to be defined, APLF Council will work with the Toulouse team to find subsidies to help re- duce the fees for French planetarians and for translation capabilities. 74 Planetarian March 2016 such as videos, multimedia, conferences, and exhibitions. (See www.estim-science.fr). Worldwide, about one third of the plane- tariums are English-speaking. That means that the two other thirds must wait for a transla- tion in their own language if they want to play an English language show in their the- atre. Vincent Jean Victor from the Planetarium of Nantes shares his experience on the prob- lems of translating planetarium shows: “If your audience doesn’t speak English, when you choose a movie for your planetarium, the first question you have to answer is: “Does this movie exist in my language?” Sometime the answer is “no,” sometime “yes.” If yes, you still have to be sure the translation and dubbing is good! Some shows start with the introduc- tion of the narrator like: “Hi folks! I’m Dustin Hoffman!” Can you imagine the French nar- rator saying “Hi! I’m Jacques Dupont!”, when Jacques is unknown? Of course not! Howev- er, you sometimes have this kind of surprise and much more so with existing translations. GLPA: Adler Planetarium has had much success with its Scopes in the City pro- Then you must find a Plan B. You have to redo gram, which has set up telescopes, bin- the translation and the recording of the nar- oculars, and science activities through- ration.” out the city of Chicago for a little over a In France, quite a lot of English shows have year. Courtesy of the Adler Planetarium. been translated and overdubbed by plane- tariums. Sometimes one planetarium does it alone, paying it on its own budget, and some- journeys through the impossible are both avail- Resort Park is located within Land Between times, a few volunteers make it for the com- able. The French premiere was in Nantes, last the Lakes and contains a conference cen- munity. Vincent has been working as one of October, and it has now screened in Nantes ter. The entire conference center has been re- these volunteers and frequently gave a hand every Monday since February. The English served by SEPA to coincide with the eclipse. for the adaptation and dubbing recording. version will soon be available, too. Accommodations are available to SEPA mem- In February 2015, three Germans started the bers on a priority basis. Remaining accommo- production of a show inspired by the work of Southeastern Planetarium dations will be opened up to the general pub- Jules Verne (See news from SGSP on page 72). Association lic on an as-yet unspecified date. As they came to Nantes, where Jules Verne SEPA will hold its annual conference 31 May For membership or general information was born, to feel the town where he grew up, thru 4 June 2016. This separates SEPA from IPS about SEPA, please visit the website above. they naturally came to Nantes’ planetarium, by three weeks. WAC, the coalition of the four and it was decided to collaborate to imagine a western regions of the US, will join SEPA at the Great Lakes Planetarium French version of their show. Gayle Planetarium in Montgomery, Alabama. Association Vincent Victor explains: ”I was very excit- This will mark the first time for SEPA to meet Illinois. The William M. Staerkel Planetari- ed, but I rapidly realised that translating an in Alabama, and conference host Rick Evans is um at Parkland College in Champaign opened English show was easier than a German one! planning a great meeting for all. 2016 with Adler Planetarium’s Spirits From the As I don’t speak German, the text had to be Registration and other conference informa- Sky, newly converted to fulldome format. In translated first in English, then in French! tion is available at the SEPA website: www. February, the staff will continue their World And once in French, we realised that the Ger- sepadomes.org. The combined forces of five of Science lecture series with talks on earth- man jokes didn’t work in French! Here we are: US regions should make for a blockbuster quakes, nanotechnology, and the emergence when you translate, you must adapt the text, conference in Montgomery. Whether you’re of life. according to your country’s culture. planning to attend IPS or not, SEPA/WAC This winter, the Elgin School District U-46 “We finally found good ways to adapt 2016 is a conference for all. Planetarium saw merit badge candidates por- the jokes, but it was a big challenge! Final- Looking ahead to the conference scene in ing over star maps, moon phases, and plan- ly, the French text was ready and we had to 2017, SEPA will join the other six US regions ets, while younger scouts learned about sky find a good voice to record it. I looked around in a mega-conference. The host site is the Mc- watching. to find a professional voice, and we final- Donnell Planetarium in St. Louis, Missouri. The Illinois State University Planetarium in ly choose Benoit Allemane, an actor mostly Conference dates are in October 2017. Stay Normal hosted a concert under the dome fea- known as the French voice for Morgan Free- tuned for further information. turing harpist Ann McLaughlin to celebrate the man. He is much more than Morgan Free- For the August 21, 2017 total solar eclipse, September lunar eclipse. The planetarium and man’s voice, but French say “This is Morgan SEPA has created an opportunity for eclipse the Normal Public Library participated in Adler Freeman !” when they hear his voice.” chasers. The eclipse centerline runs thru Land Planetarium’s Galaxy Ride, which involved The show is now finished. The German and Between the Lakes National Monument near hands-on science activities at the library, fol- French version of Jules Verne Voyages–Three Golden Pond, Kentucky. Lake Barkley State lowed by a special show in the planetarium. March 2016 Planetarian 75 Staff members of Chicago’s Adler Planetari- um have been running their sidewalk astron- omy program Scopes in the City for a little over a year now, setting up telescopes, binoc- ulars, and science activities throughout the city of Chicago. The program has been very successful, reaching between 20-200 people at GLPA: The Koch each event. Immersive This fall, the staff of the Peoria Riverfront Theater in Museum’s Dome Planetarium hosted a lunar Evansville hosted eclipse viewing party. Despite clouds, about independently sanctioned 500 people attended. In October, the staff TED talks under hosted their first Yoga under the Stars event. their dome in Later that month, the staff hosted a lecture by October. Dr. James Kaler, who presented on “The Lives Courtesy of Mitch Luman. and Deaths of Stars.” Finally, the planetarium resumed its popular Wine and Cheese under the Stars series after a few-months break. At the Cernan Earth & Space Center on the oversee and maintain daily presentations. duction titled Did an Asteroid Really Kill the campus of Triton College in River Grove, new In Alpena, the Besser Museum for North- Dinosaurs? theater seating is now installed, new theater east Michigan has launched a campaign to The University of Wisconsin-Milwau- carpeting and lobby flooring has been laid, transform its 50 year-old optical-mechanical kee’s Manfred Olson Planetarium had Uni- new programs have been purchased for its planetarium into a multi-disciplinary digital view installed late in October and incorpo- new Super MediaGlobe II projection system, theater. The museum will celebrate its 50th rated it in the storytelling class Tale of Scale: and Kris McCall has now assumed her role as anniversary in May of 2016. How Big is the Universe. The UWM Planetar- director. In East Lansing, the Abrams Planetarium ium started the new year with an open house Indiana. GLPA President-Elect Dayle ran their traditional shows of Season of Light to celebrate its 50th anniversary. Brown recently was featured in a one-wom- and George and Oatmeal Save Santa for the hol- an show of Skylore from Planet Earth and one iday season. Southwestern Association of week of Starlab presentations at the Buchanan At the Delta College Planetarium in Bay Planetariums Art Center in Buchanan, Michigan. City, Mike Murray is hosting a new monthly Perot Museum of Nature and Science Por- Mitch Luman from the Koch Immersive series called Gateway to the Stars, which offers table Planetarium, Dallas, Texas presented a Theater at the Evansville Museum attended a live and interactive show about observing variety of planetarium programs, astronomy his first Digistar Users Group meeting in Salt techniques with binoculars and telescopes. activities, and star-gazing during the fall and Lake City in August and has been busy shar- The staff has also produced a number of short winter. ing everything he learned with his staff with live sequences on current events and hot top- The Japan-America Society of Dallas/Fort an eye toward improving their live shows. ics to accompany the recorded programs. Worth and Crow Collection presented Otsu- Keith Davis and Arielle Phillips from the Ohio. Laura Megeath reports from Lourdes kimi, a celebration of the full moon, at Klyde University of Notre Dame’s Digital Visual- University that the Appold Planetarium was Warren Park in Dallas on 27 October. The eve- ization Theater will be teaching the first-ev- upgraded to a new Spitz projector this past ning included performances by musicians and er astronomy track for the Summer Schol- summer. dancers, food, activities, and crafts for all ages. ars program at Notre Dame, which is a It has been a time of transition at the Ward Perot Museum of Nature and Science provid- selective multi-track, two-week program for Beecher Planetarium in Youngstown. In late- ed telescopes for guests to observe the moon. high school juniors and seniors. June Sharon Shanks retired as planetarium lec- Illuminate, the 2015 theme of an annual Dayna Thompson, assistant planetarium turer. The planetarium also received a gener- gala, Night at the Museum, explored light. In- director, reports that the Brown Planetarium ous endowment from a local family, which teractives for guests and hosts included a look at Ball State University has completed its first will be used to purchase new shows and bring at the educational collection of meteorites, year of operation. In the first year, there were lecturers to campus. Finally, as part of a NASA Kepler Spacecraft’s search for habitable plan- 328 presentations for a total of 20,105 visitors. public outreach grant, the planetarium will re- ets, and a 16-foot time and space table on loan Ball State’s “old” planetarium has been con- ceive new workstations, a render farm, a full- from University of North Texas. verted to a new “fulldome media lab” that en- dome camera rig, and will be hiring a full-time On 8 December Southern Methodist Uni- ables teams of students to create digital media graphic artist for the five years of this grant. versity professor Dr. Jodi Cooley present- content for the dome. Wisconsin/Minnesota. In November, the ed “Whispers in the Dark,” discussing her re- Deb Lawson at the Indianapolis Children’s Charles Horwitz Planetarium in Waukesha, search of dark matter. Dr. Cooley is principal Museum reports that the now closed Space- Wisconsin completed its summer and fall co- investigator of Super Cryogenic Dark Matter Quest Planetarium has donated chairs, pro- operative effort with Waukesha County Li- Search experiment. The program was broad- duction studio, slides, and slide projectors to braries, called Waukesha Reads. In this agree- cast through the museum’s distance learning other planetariums throughout the nation. ment, children in Waukesha County received program, Sciencecast. As things wrap up in the facility, Deb Lawson free passes to public planetarium shows for Fall and winter school audiences explored will assist school services with research and reading ten books during the summer. This the night sky learning cultural and historic program development. year’s theme was “exploration,” so the plane- stories of constellations. Many are often sur- Michigan. The Kalamazoo Valley Museum tarium ran the Explorers program. prised to hear asterisms, like the Big Dipper/ is pleased to announce that LaRue Russell has The Soref Planetarium at the Milwaukee the Plough, is imagined many different ways. been hired as their planetarium technician to Public Museum will produce an original pro- (Continues on page 78) 76 Planetarian March 2016 WAS-MagazineAd-V01-Now2.pdf 1 17/07/2015 11:40 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K March 2016 Planetarian 77 E. Bishop, who shared knowledge, experi- ences, and current trends under planetari- um domes. Planetarians participated in an open full- dome show production workshop spon- sored by Evans & Sutherland for Digistar projection systems users (but not exclusive- ly for them). Other interesting lectures were given by Dr. Jose Franco, director of Science Diffusion, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México, on the importance of astrono- my for the development of civilization and measurement of time, especially in the Me- soamerican cultures. Thomas Kraupe from Hamburg Planetar- ium illustrated the ideas of IPS and the cul- tural role of the planetarium in the 21st cen- tury world society and the 10 reasons why the planetarium is important, the most prominent being: “the planetarium is a AMP: Attendees of the II International Planetarium Festival and AMPAC´s XLIV meeting. Photo courtesy Edu- space ship for the mind and is a citizen’s the- ardo Hernandez. atre of the cosmos.” He also stressed the impor- tance of STEAM, and the “A” that stands for (International, continued from page 76) interpretation in a dome has been white- Arts in the sciences. In addition, he presented November and December presentations in- gloved interpreters and red lights that were the fulldome shows the Lichmond-Universe of cluded information on the Leonid and Gem- shined on them during the show. While this Light and Planet Earth 3D-Between Ice Age and inid meteor showers. In early January, the works impeccably well, it does require a live Green House. planetarium staff traveled five hours west and interpreter for every presentation. It also lim- Carter Emmart from Hayden Planetarium, north to bring upper-level programs to high its seating to those nearby the interpreter. New York City, explained how he has made school students. BYU’s technology uses virtual reality glass- scientific visualization a tool to explain the In January the planetarium presented two es, but instead of creating an entire world they dark universe. Mark Subbaro from the Adler public programs for events occurring during just place a video window in the corner. A Planetarium Visualization Laboratory, Chica- the traveling exhibit Creatures of Light. Bal- night-vision video camera captures the sign go, spoke on the future of the planetarium, es- ance explored the nature of light and shad- interpreter. The system allows for live inter- pecially as a research tool using the big data ow in astronomy. This 25-minute family pro- pretation of star talks or other interactive pre- challenge, streaming data using World Wide gram allowed guests to explore the new moon sentations without limiting where audience Telescope information. Jeff Bowen from Bow- (9 January) and the nebulae in the constella- members with interpretation needs can sit. en Technovation presented immersive audio tion Orion. Glow, presented at the adults-on- They have a free pick of any seat in the theater. available to planetariums, including 3D audio. ly program Social Science, explored biolumi- Pre-recorded interpretation also can be Jeanne E. Bishop shared her knowledge nescence. synched with the planetarium system. on cognitive development astronomy edu- Scott Sumner of the Noble Planetarium, Planetariums currently fall in a grey area cation on applications for school planetari- Fort Worth, Texas reports on augmented real- legally as far as certain accommodations for um programs on how to get the teachers into ity in the dome. Most of us have heard of vir- those with disabilities. Current law requires all the dome and adapt projections to school age tual reality, 3D digital worlds that you can ex- movie theaters to be capable of closed caption groups and educational best practices, consid- plore with special headsets or “tour” in a web interpretation. This is a way that we, as plan- ering astronomy an education science. “We browser. The world of Google Street View is a etariums, can integrate not just closed cap- live on a space ship,” she quoted. virtual reality environment we’re probably tions, but sign language interpretation as well. A preview of a fulldome animated mov- all familiar with, although it’s much less inter- We are then fully compliant whether the law ie show production was shown. Tochtli, the active than some. considers us a “theater” or not. Adventure of the Lunar Rabbit by the Tor- The world of augmented reality is new and reón Planetarium, will participate in the Brno still evolving. Google Glass is the most popu- Association of Mexican IPS Full Dome Festival and the IPS 2016 War- lar technology for augmented reality. Rath- Planetariums saw Conference. The show tells how a rabbit, er than a computer-generated 3D world, aug- On the Mexican Caribbean island of Cozu- Tochtli, came to be stamped on the moon, mented reality adds data to an existing world. mel, in the State of Quintana Roo, the recent- and follows his travels throughout Mexico to Many times that’s our world, though it can ly inaugurated Cozumel Planetarium Cha´an top astronomy search sites. also be confined to a specific space with spe- Ka´an was host to the II International Plane- A special recognition goes to the Quintana cial tags similar to QR codes to trigger interac- tarium Festival on 2-4 December, coinciding Roo Science and Technology Council under tive experiences. with AMPAC´s XLIV meeting. Representa- the directorship of Víctor Manuel Alcérre- Recently, the Noble Planetarium hosted a tives from at least 20 planetariums attended, ca Sánchez, who has supported the develop- research group from Brigham Young Univer- thanks to the support of the National Sci- ment of four digital planetariums through- sity who are working to use augmented real- ence and Technology Council (CONACYT), out the state of Quintana Roo. A fifth one ity to bring sign language interpretation to that also made possible the attendance of top is in the planning stage. This is an initia- planetariums and other alternative style class- IPS planetarians : Thomas Kraupe, Carter Em- tive that could and should be replicated in rooms. For years the answer to sign language mart, Mark Subbaro , Jeff Bowen, and Jeanne other Mexican states. I 78 Planetarian March 2016 March 2016 Planetarian 79 El derecho a un cielo oscuro: Celebrating the right to dark skies Eduardo Hernandez Director, Planetarium Torreón Torreón, Coahuila, Mexico 27058 eduardo@planetariumtorreon.com Now, besides presenting a reduction in the Many planetariums nowadays have a live sec- The international forum “Right to Dark consumption of electricity, the city has safer tion about science. Observatories and tele- Skies” convened January 20-22 in Mexi- and more harmonious lighting. scopes in science centers are also important co City, organized by the UNESCO Office It is precisely there that planetariums play awareness tools because the user experiences in Mexico, with the support of the National a very important role in our communities, the problem of light pollution in real time. Council of Science and Technology, the Na- which is to generate and transmit informa- We can also mention recreational science tional Autonomous University of Mexico, tion that is useful for citizens. In the panel workshops, interactive modules, full exposi- and the Mexican Academy of Sciences. named “Sensitizing and educating through tions, conferences, and other activities already In 2003, UNESCO created the thematic ini- the dissemination of science,” the agreement carried out in our institutions; if we include tiative “Astronomy and Heritage,” acknowl- reached by the participating institutions was this topic in our policies on public dissemi- edging the important link between the sky that of delivering to the public information nation of science, society will surely ask that and humans, and in 2007, the International that is useful for them; many times we speak this problem be addressed in the government Conference in Defence of the Night Sky and of light pollution as a problem that affects agendas after a while. the Right to Starlight was held in La Palma, solely astronomers and our ability to observe In Ensenada, México, the dedicated hard Canary Islands, Spain, with the participation stars, when it actually has several other effects. work done by the Astronomy Institute of of several observatories. Disseminating the idea that light pollution UNAM (National Autonomous University has many more consequences will result in so- of Mexico) has projected the “Sky Law.” Said The declaration is made ciety implementing measures to address this law is a series of regulations and public poli- The Declaration in Defense of Night Skies problem. For example, a family may or may cies that will help keep the quality of the skies and the Right to Starlight was born as a result not care substantially if they are able to ob- in zones where the major observatories of the of this international summit held in the beau- serve the stars; however, if they are informed country are located. tiful Canary Islands. This declaration states, in that the amount of money spent in electrici- Similar policies have been set in Chile and general terms: the ability to observe an unpol- ty may be reduced and that their home will be Spain, but this must not be a task that con- luted sky is an inalienable right of mankind. It safer, they will be provided with arguments to cerns only scientific research institutions, but calls for generating public policies that allow make decisions aimed to solve the problem. a joint effort among society, researchers, and correct lighting and energy saving, education- institutions devoted to public dissemination based knowledge as a tool to integrate science Planetariums can be involved of science. in our culture, the protection of the quality Thus, planetariums have a valuable oppor- The sky is the only “landscape” that all of the skies in research sites, and tourism as a tunity to be involved with their community mankind has in common, so a collective ef- drive to generate alliances in order to protect and face a common problem. Generating pub- fort has to be done in order to preserve it; not our skies. lic policies related to our environment is our only to keep its cultural value, but also to be Now, in this new forum in Mexico, astron- goal, but in order to achieve that, we need to able to continue exploring and investigating omers and organizations concerned about start policies on public dissemination of sci- the cosmos. I the protection of dark skies presented papers ence that sensitize the that stated the need to preserve skies with low population about the light pollution not only to carry out scientific topic. research projects, but also as cultural heritage It is not an easy task, that stems from a millennial observation and but it can be done grad- study of the stars. ually by including in our Planetarium Torreón was invited and pre- presentations a segment sented as a case study because of its work that that talks about light pol- is close to the community and its outreach lution, beyond speaking programs that seek a culture of correct light- merely about the astro- ing. The city of Torreón, in the state of Coa- nomical consequences huila, has set a government program to sub- and focusing on the ben- stitute all current street lights for LED lights. efits of a correct lighting. 80 Planetarian March 2016 NEED FINANCING? For over 10-years MTE has worked with qualiied, and trusted inancing companies and helped facilities throughout the United States ind the assistance they need. Vicki Amorosi +1 305-573-7339 Vice President vicki@myiceco.com Magna-Tech Electronic Company MTE proudly serves as the exclusive North American distributor of Konica Minolta Planetarium systems. March 2016 Planetarian 81 LIP Service Karrie Berglund Director of Education Digitalis Education Solutions, Inc. Bremerton, Washington 98337 USA karrie@digitaliseducation.com “People are willing to engage with a live speaker way more than a recording, right? If a recorded show said, ‘Hold your arm up and try this,’ you can imagine (or have experienced) a lot of people not doing it. If a live speaker says it with ‘appropriate and expressive intonation,’ then you can get almost everyone to do it.”—Karen Klamczynski I was excited when Editor Sharon Shanks asked me to write this col- umn about live planetarium programming. As a fervent proponent of live, interactive lessons, I am looking forward to sharing ideas and thoughts with all of you. First, the title: Many of you are likely familiar with LIPS, the annu- al Live Interactive Planetarium Symposium. Digitalis started LIPS, and we hosted the first symposium in 2011 at our headquarters in Bremer- ton, Washington. I will discuss LIPS in detail in a future column. LIPS is open to anyone and everyone who does live, interactive pro- grams. It doesn’t matter at all what system an attendee uses, whether ty to tailor your subject matter to your audience is by far the strongest it’s digital or a starball, portable or fixed. Ideas are discussed that can reason to do live, interactive programs. Well said, Susan! nearly always be modified for use with any dome. Vendors are encour- Alan Gould, retired from the Holt Planetarium at Lawrence Hall of aged to fully participate at LIPS, even to propose and present sessions Science (California), is perhaps one of the best-known proponents of if desired. However, there is no vendor hall at LIPS and only one spon- live shows. He wrote: sorship level; all vendors get the same benefits and exposure opportu- “Alan Friedman often pointed [out] that the planetarium is an en- nities. vironment uniquely amenable to a sense of group experience, much This column title is meant to reflect LIPS’ influence on me as well more than movie theaters and especially with live audience-partici- as to pay homage to one of my idols, Elvis Costello. (Elvis wrote a song pation programs. That group experience, once attendees have expo- called “Lip Service” way back in the 1970’s). I want to point out that sure to it, often results in comments from the audience after the show while “lip service” typically has a negative connotation, I’m using it to the effect ‘that was great!’ and ‘thanks so much, you really made this here as a positive: I am in service to Live Interactive Planetariums. stuff come alive for me.’ I want to state that I recognize that prerecorded shows have some “While I see a trend toward unidirectional seating in planetariums, advantages over live programs. For example, the presenter does not our Pacific Planetarium (built in 2011) has concentric bench seating. need to have any special subject knowledge to play a movie. Many Why? Because we like the audience to be able to hear everyone’s ideas, times prerecorded content can present a concept that is cannot be not only those of the presenter. “ demonstrated well—or maybe not at all—with the planetarium soft- Concentric seating allows everyone in the dome to see and hear ware. With prerecorded content there is consistency among different everyone else, contributing to the group experience. A debate about audiences, since the movie will be exactly the same for every group. whether the planetarium is the only environment where this sense However, live, interactive programs have distinct advantages over of cohesion can happen is taking place on the LIPS Google Group as I prerecorded, and I will discuss those here. In order to represent the en- write this column. tire LIPS community via this column, I posted a message to the LIPS From Dr. Dave Bradstreet of Eastern University (Pennsylvania): Google Group asking for ideas. I will integrate several responses here. “When we give public programs, we typically have a live 25-minute session (“Sky Tonight” kind of thing) first and then a 22-minute full- What advantages to live and interactive? dome video. Time and time again, our audiences comment that, as Susan Button of Quarks to Clusters (New York) and a long-time Star- good as the fulldome video was, they would have been just as happy lab user (as well as a past IPS president) commented: “One very impor- or more so if we’d conducted the entire program as a live, interactive tant characteristic of live programs . is that each program is special to presentation. We hear these types of comments literally every time we one audience and can never be repeated in exactly the same way be- have a new audience. The people are engaged, interested, and active- cause it is driven by the interaction of each unique audience and the ly learning. Fulldome videos automatically place people into ‘mov- observations and questions that come from that audience. That makes ie-mode,’ where they’re not nearly as attentive nor do they have a each program more relevant to the audience members and more excit- chance to actively interact or ask questions (obviously).” ing for the presenter.” If you’ve ever seen one of Dave’s presentations, I’m sure you know In other words, the last item in the list of prerecorded content why his audiences enjoy them so much. I like Dave’s mention of peo- strengths can instead be seen as a weakness. In my opinion, the abili- (Continues on page 84) 82 Planetarian March 2016 March 2016 Planetarian 83 (LIP Service, continued from page 82) In fact, lately I’ve been in search of and ask- ple “actively learning” during live presenta- ing for excellent prerecorded clips that can tions; this is another key advantage. The two- be used in live interactive programs. I envi- way flow of information in a live presentation sion that such clips are ideally between 5 requires more intellectual engagement than the seconds and 5 minutes in length.” one-way flow of a movie. This is not to say that Karen Klamczynski added a follow up af- people do not learn from prerecorded content— ter reading Alan’s message above: “I’ve al- obviously they can and do learn, but passively. ways thought this was a good idea—kind They simply cannot interact with a movie. of a ‘best of both worlds’ approach. Vary- ing the presentation (tone, type, pace, etc.) A chance to ask questions keeps a show interesting. Plus the presenter Amy Truksa of the College of Idaho’s Whit- gets a small break!” tenberger Planetarium listed these advantages: Time will tell, but I suspect that the ap- “The audience has the opportunity to ask proach Alan and Karen are advocating—blend- clarification questions. A concept or visual can ing live and prerecorded content—will turn be repeated or re-explained in a way that clar- out to be both the most educationally effec- ifies the point. tive and most engaging type of presentation. “The presenter has the opportunity to en- Note that Dave Bradstreet is using a blended gage the audience in an interactive way. Some- approach already, and he’s certainly not the times these questions are used to keep the au- only one. This topic comes up frequently at dience engaged—students who have studied LIPS and similar sessions/workshops. astronomy prior to the visit are SO excited to A blend of recorded/live works share what they already know, i.e. ‘What is this a picture of?’ ‘What planet is this?’ Or, I I remember Kim Small of Upper Dublin will tell the Andromeda/Perseus story as a fill School District (Pennsylvania) comment- in the blank—I start the sentence and they fin- ing once that her lessons with first graders ish, ‘and when he pulled Medusa’s head out of used this approach to great success, inte- the bag and Cetus saw it, he … turned to stone!’” grating live segments with AVI’s prerecord- Good points, Amy! I want to highlight ed modules The Moon. Kim said that this Amy’s comment about checking for com- variety held the students’ attention much prehension: If an audience is not intellectual- longer than either type on its own. ly ready to move on, they will likely only get Geoff Holt of the Madison (Wisconsin) more confused as the program continues and Metropolitan School District Planetarium may eventually stop listening. added to Alan’s and Karen’s thoughts: From Karen Klamczynski of Evans and “.‘live’ isn’t always ‘lively.’ My students Sutherland: “I think there is an inherent advantage in live narration and I had some great conversations last week following some of the . you know when you’re listening to a recording, and there is a dif- plenary speakers at [the American Astronomical Society Meeting]. We ference between the attention you give a recording and the attention reflected on what they learned, but we also reviewed the speaker’s ef- you give to a person talking directly to you. fectiveness in presenting the information and engaging the audience. I “As for recordings, I think there is something about the intonation did this partly because I knew that two of the students were involved and cadence of speech that is (easily) recognizable to us, even in the in forensics competitions. They had great insights, like ‘I kept spacing dark. When a live speaker is giving a presentation—a performance—ev- out during that talk because it sounded like he was just reading it.’ Or eryone inherently knows it’s unique. I think people pay more atten- ‘that speaker was basically mono-tone, and had no energy.’” tion. Perhaps the whole thing is perceived more as your demonstra- Way to shape the future, Geoff! We planetarians need to not only tion for them. know our subject matter but also how to present it in a way that is “A live speaker can regain or focus audience attention through vocal engaging and inspiring, encouraging our audiences to learn more on cues. A recording can’t react to a situation or be ‘in tune with’ the au- their own. Geoff’s high school students are savvy enough to notice dience. A live speaker can adjust content on the fly for a particular pre- whether or not a speaker has passion for the subject matter; people sentation or audience. simply listen more attentively to a passionate speaker. “People are willing to engage with a live speaker way more than a re- If you think you’d like to attend LIPS 2016, the dates will be Wednes- cording, right? If a recorded show said, ‘Hold your arm up and try this,’ day through Friday, August 10-12. Spitz, Inc. will be our host at their you can imagine (or have experienced) a lot of people not doing it. If a headquarters in Chadds Ford, Pennsylvania (near Philadelphia). Giv- live speaker says it with ‘appropriate and expressive intonation,’ then en my early planning discussions with Spitz staff, I know that it will you can get almost everyone to do it.” be a fantastic conference. Information will be announced via the LIPS Karen makes several good points. I particularly like her note about Google Group and posted at www.LIPSymposium.org as it becomes people engaging more with a live presenter than with a movie. Young available. children will follow along with a soundtrack and raise their hands, Thanks to everyone for their thoughts! If any of you reading this stomp their feet, etc., when prompted, but in my experience, most au- would like to make comments or join the LIPS Google Group, just send dience members above nine years old will not participate simply be- me an email at karrie@DigitalisEducation.com. I cause a recorded voice said to do something. The reactions are indeed different if a live person is asking for participation. Karrie Berglund is the director of Education at and a co-founder of Digital- Alan Gould also wrote: is Education Solutions. She is a former director of the Willard Smith Plane- tarium at Pacific Science Center and spent several years touring Washing- “I’ve seen a few very good prerecorded shows, so I do not subscribe to ton State with PSC's Science On Wheels outreach program. the idea that all live programs are better than pre-recorded programs. 84 Planetarian March 2016 March 2016 Planetarian 85 From the Classdome Jack L. Northrup Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Planetarium King Science and Technology Magnet Center 3720 Florence Boulevard Omaha, Nebraska 68110 USA +1 402-557-4494 jlnorthrup@fbx.com It was very eye-opening to me to see where my classes fit on the 21st century strategies list. Welcome to testing season. During this trying time, keep a stiff up- • Optional: binder clips per lip and remember: the students will come back to the planetarium. • Markers and crayons Soon the summer groups will start rolling back in, and you will once • Hand lens or low power micro- again be busy beyond belief. scope (enough to establish sta- I am taking my bit of down time to do a little maintenance around tions) the planetarium, such as fixing that chair in the third row that squeaks every time someone sits in it and the small 60 Hz buzz in the left rear I have found it is easier to use the speaker you get when the sound system first turns on. cups rather than give each group a I am also working on my reading list again and first up is Flip Your beaker for the snow collection, so I Classroom. While I firmly believe that no book has a magic method to prep the cups by filling them with 25 reach every child (sorry Marzano1), I do enjoying finding some tricks or 100 ml of water and marking the and techniques to improve my instruction. water line. (And then dump the cups, I have 26 computers in the planetarium for the astronomy classes to of course.) Jonathan Bergmann and use in their studies and productions. For years I thought I was doing a I meet the kids at the bus before Aaron Sams, International “blended” classroom, when actually I am using a tech-enhanced class- coming into the planetarium and Society for Technology room model. My astronomy-at-a-distance classes were more of the in- hand out the cups. Some kids re- in Education, 2012 teractive blended model. ceived the 100 ml cups and others, It was very eye-opening to me to see where my classes fit on the 21st the 25 ml cups. They were instructed century strategies list. When I finish the book I am going to see where to scoop up a bit of snow, up to the line on the cup, and bring them to I can take my class to with a few of the new strategies; keep an eye out the patio outside the planetarium. for this to be described in future articles. I had preloaded the clipboards with white and black paper (I use the binder clips to hold down the bottom of the pages on breezy days). “Then what happened” Students with 100 ml cups of snow were told to dump the snow as a A new instructional strategy that I am experimenting with is called clump/pile in the middle of one of the papers. The clipboards were “Then What Happened,” where you use the vocabulary of the day or then placed on the benches on the patio in partial sunlight. I told them lesson to write a short paragraph. So for example, when we are talking “We are going to come back and see how much melting has occurred about motion in space and the key vocabulary is rotation, revolution, during the visit to the planetarium.” axis, orbit, day, and year. The prompt would look like “Earth is mov- Now is the part that has to be done quickly. Once the group has ing; then what happened?” moved inside, have the students go to stations around the lobby that Possible answer: The Earth is moving in two ways. It is rotating on have hand lens, markers, crayons, and slips of paper already set up. its Axis and this is how a Day happens. It is also Revolving around the Have the students with 25 ml cups dump their snow on the black 8x6 Sun on an Orbit. One Revolution is a Year. sheet of construction paper. Using the hand lens, have them observe I had the students capitalize the key vocabulary each time they the snow and record on the slip of paper their observations. Some good used it or highlight it so they knew they had used all the terms. For questions to prompt the students include “Can you see any of the this one I let them use variants of Rotation and Revolution to com- snow melting?” “Does any of your snow have points, like the snow- plete the passage. flakes seen on television and movies?” “Is any of your snow flat like a disk or round like a pebble?” Lesson Plan: Snow day at the planetarium Normally, by the time the students have drawn their observations Materials the snow has mostly melted and it is a good time clean up. We recy- • Clear/translucent cups (1 for each group) cle the plastic cups and the paper (if possible) before heading into the • 500 ml beaker (1 for measuring purposes) planetarium. • Black construction paper (Each group will need 1 sheet cut to ap- I have been partnering this activity with short clip about fractals proximately 8x11 inches, and each person will need a sheet cut to and geometric patterns and a longer presentation on energy from the 8x6 inches) sun. • White printer paper (1 full sheet for each group and a stack of 1/8 After the presentation we head back outside to check out the clip- sheet slips) boards and see how the piles of snow have been melting. Once the • Clipboards (2 per group) snow is knocked off the clipboard, I send the papers home with the teachers to use as a touch point activity on why the melt pattern is dif- ferent on each sheet. I 1 Robert J. Marzano, US educational researcher 86 Planetarian March 2016 emotional education March 2016 Planetarian 87 Mobile News Susan Reynolds Button Quarks to Clusters 8793 Horseshoe Lane Chittenango, New York 13037 USA +1 315-687-5371 sbuttonq2c@gmail.com quarkstoclusters.wordpress.com Edutopia, an exciting national initiative in the UK, Pages of Stars winner If you are not familiar with Edutopia, I think it would be worth your • Continue with our own professional development; model how time to peruse their “K-12 Education Tips & Strategies That Work” at important it is to grow and expand beyond ones comfort zone www.edutopia.org. There you will find interesting and pertinent vid- and to keep current. eos, case studies about successful schools, discussions about project- • Continue to emphasize how our thoughts and work relate to the based learning, experts’ comments on technology integration, apps for world community. student creators, and a plethora of other topics of interest to educators. • Continue to believe in each child’s potential to contribute. One of their recent articles that I read was of particular interest to I think that the points Hawley makes are spot on. The question is me and my unique blend of biases. It is called “Stop, Start, Continue: how can we incorporate these ideas in our work with planetariums? Conceptual Understanding Meets Applied Problem Solving” and was I hope we can have some discussions about this at our international written by David B. Hawley, International Baccalaureate (IB) Chief Ac- conference in Warsaw. ademic Officer. To read the entire article, go to: www.edutopia.org/blog/stop-start- In the article Hawley began by stating the mission of Internation- continue-conceptual-meets-applied-david-hawley. al Baccalaureate World Schools: “…we endeavor to create internation- ally-minded young people who, recognizing our common humanity Portable planetariums and a national initiative and shared guardianship of the planet, help make a better and more I am so happy to hear about and to be able to share news about peaceful world.” After reading that statement I was hooked! something that could provide our community with some valuable re- He urged that in order to get better at what we are doing, we need sources. A wonderful initiative, with portable planetariums at the fore- to develop a habit of mind that asks these questions: What should we front, has commenced in the United Kingdom. I look forward to an up- stop doing, start doing, and continue doing? In other words, we need date about this project at IPS 2016 in Warsaw! to build in time to pause and reflect before proceeding to create any Here is the report from the British Association of Planetaria explain- new lesson or activity. ing current progress made and exciting future plans: Humanity cannot wait for students to graduate—whether or not “The reach of UK planetria exceeds 1.5 million every year. At least they are in IB schools—and get started on doing things that contrib- 500,000 of these are through mobile domes. The impact of the mo- ute to a better world. We need to give students in every school, at ev- bile dome community in the UK to reach geographically isolated and ery age, real agency and authentic opportunities to make a difference underserved communities is raising the profile of our members with in this volatile, unpredictable, complex, and ambiguous world. With this in mind, we cannot be satisfied only with students learning about the world and developing deep conceptual under- standing of multiple disciplines. We need young people building an ever-expanding portfolio of skills and experiences of things that they have done, created, and contributed to—things that matter to them, to others, and to the world we share. In order to make this happen, he said the three things we need to stop doing are: • Stop teaching as if we have all the answers. • Stop rushing to cover content. • And, stop talking so much. He explained that those who solve real problems, take time to see all aspects of a topic, ask questions, and state what they ob- serve get to experience deeper learning. He proposes that the three things we should start doing are: • Start looking for real problems for students to solve, actions they can take, and beauty they can create. • Start teaching with the knowledge that students need to feel The teachers, chemistry consultants and animators with RSC and Explorer Dome emotions, and recognize and share those emotions in order staff. to learn anything. From left to right: University of Bristol, chemistry, Tim Harrison; NSC Creative, • Start looking for ways to share our students’ hard work with Liam Wardle; NSC Creative, Paul Mowbray; Explorer Dome, Shaaron Leverment; Ex- a community larger than the classroom through partnering plorer Dome, Ben Brown; Explorer Dome, Josh Yates; RSC, Lee Page; Bristol Sec- with local businesses and organizations. ondary School teacher, Julian Edgell; RSC, Marc Neesam; Bristol Primary School teacher, Nick Rees. All photos courtesy Shaaron Leverment. And three things we should continue doing are: 88 Planetarian March 2016 higher organisations keen to pro- “More than just a space dome! In- mote the public understanding of creasing numbers of our mobile science. members are realising the benefits of “Recent collaborations, led branching out into more specialised by Shaaron Leverment (Explor- shows—light and sound, forces, hu- er Dome), include partnerships be- man biology, environmental issues, tween the British Association of dinosaurs, art, and much more! The Planetaria and the Royal Society of Royal Society of Chemistry fund- Chemistry, STFC (the Science and ed development of a show to bring Technology Facilities Council) and chemistry to life inside the dome en- the UK Space Agency. vironment for primary audiences. “The UK Space Agency recently “Many chemistry demonstrations, provided the UK community with for health and safety reasons and due funds to produce some excellent to the confidence of teachers, are of- fulldome resources to support the ten limited to secondary schools and mission of Tim Peake as part of the more bench-based demonstrations. Principia mission (principia.org.uk). Explorer Dome (a company running Tim Peake is the UK’s first govern- 3 domes from Bristol, UK) was asked ment-backed astronaut, who blast- to develop a new show that fused ed off to the ISS on 15 December for their emphasis on primary audience a 7-month mission. Working along- interaction and participation with side key members of the UK plane- the message of ‘Chemistry is Every- tarium community, who formed a where.’ The final show is on the top- steering group for content, NSC Cre- ic of water—investigating its origins, ative (Leicester) developed anima- molecular properties and life cycle. tions that brought the ISS into the The show worked with fusing hands- planetarium in stunning reality. on demonstrations and bespoke full- “However, this was just the first dome graphics to support the narra- phase of this project. Tim will be tive, provided by NSC Creative. It is producing real footage during his hoped that this show will reach a na- time on-board, shot through the tional audience with dissemination 8mm lens, to support planetarium Top: Tim’s launch to the ISS was supported by mobile domes in UK of its key parts to the BAP commu- education in the UK. If filming can schools. Science co-ordinator and pupils at St Mary’s Primary, Bristol, nity. occur using the RED camera, it is celebrated with crazy headgear. Below: European Space Agency im- “For all our current projects, the re- age of Tim just before an EVA. possible that this footage can be ex- sources developed have been provid- tended to larger domes. However, it ed as carefully structured clips that is satisfying to see that the UK Space can be inserted into current present- Agency is requesting Tim’s time to film with resolution purely for mo- er-led shows in 1- to 2-minute clips, or run together to form a mini- bile domes. This reflects the increasing support for the high impact show. We are therefore slowing building a clip library of free resources work we do and the hard-to-reach audiences that the mobile domes for the community. Shaaron has run a mobile dome with presenter- provide for. We hope that there will be footage to share with the Euro- led shows for 18 years and wished to provide a modular and flexible pean community and beyond in time for IPS 2016. (Continues on page 90) Josh Yates gives live demonstrations: Left, for water purification, he adds sticks, mud, and manure to water (which is what is happening in the photo) and then puts it through a lifesaver bottle. To demonstrate that the water is pota- ble, he also drinks it. Center: building a 10-sec- ond stalagmite. Above: Students and adult members of the RFC are excited and surprised by the water show launch at the Royal Society of Chemistry in London. March 2016 Planetarian 89 (Mobile, continued from page 89) stars or constellations or other sky ob- Matthias explains, “I have quite early re- design to the fulldome resources that empha- jects visible with the naked eye. alized that we very often have to repeat se- sised putting the needs and requests of the We are happy to announce congratulations quences in our shows, and therefore decided presenter first. Therefore the clips empower to Matthias Rode, winner of this year’s Pag- to work in addition to all the talking we any- the presenter and promote the importance es of Stars Contest, for his submission of “100 how have to do, with recordings and scripts of interaction with the audience. Of course Sextillions of Stars,” which you will find post- in Nightshade. We have also done a few bilin- the most important resource we have is not ed online in the Free Me- gual shows now and this was a second rea- the fulldome graphics, but the passionate ex- dia space on the IPS web- son for us to record this sequence about perts who devote their lives to running mo- site: www.ips-planetarium. the unimaginably high number of stars bile domes!” org/?page=freemedia.Con- that has been a part of almost every show Contact Information: Shaaron Leverment tinue from there to the au- now.” Matthias’ business can be found on (FRAS), Special Projects Manager; Explorer dio section and then to Pag- the internet at fulldomedia.com. Dome Hands-On Science Outreach; Tel: +44 es of Stars. Contact information: Matthias Rode, (0)7930 350 805; Email: shaaron@explorerdome. Matthias was born and fulldomedia gmbh; Schulplanetarium; co.uk; www.explorerdome.co.uk. works in Germany. He has a Egerländer Straße 30; 37242 Bad Sooden- university degree in chemis- Allendorf; Mob +49-173-9025010; Fon Matthias Rode Pages of Stars: A yearly contest try, economics, and science +49-5661-9199661; Fax +49-5661-91996619; Last year a call went out for planetarian education from the Univer- email: info@schulplanetarium.de; www. colleagues from around the world to prepare sität Kassel and has been working for almost schulplanetarium.de. a short recording and text, in English, that 20 years as a secondary schoolteacher. I am pleased to provide the text of Matthias’ could be used under a planetarium dome. The In addition he has been working with his submission, which follows. text could be: mobile planetarium under the label Schul- We are happy to see the IPS free audio • an astronomical and scientific commen- planetarium for five years in central Germa- bank increasing each year and look for- tary, ny. His company, the fulldomedia GmbH, has ward to your submissions in 2016! Partici- • a classical Greek (or another culture’s) sky one employee and presents about 300-400 pants must send materials before Decem- story, or planetarium shows in 100 ”packages” each ber 31. For rules see: www.ips-planetarium. • an original story or a poem (any kind of year. The company has also been renting full- org/?page=portablecom. topic) with some astronomical details or dome equipment for a variety of venues (fairs, That’s all for now. Don’t hesitate to share with an event that happens under the clubs, and universities) and some customers what is going on in your mobile domes. I hope night sky (including the name of some rent or buy equipment for their own purposes. to see many of you at IPS 2016! I 100 Sextillions of Stars (The text was translated by Elisabeth Birgit There are also researchers who estimate the done that a lot more often than we do today. Madsen; spoken by Selina Seidel; recorded number of stars in the universe to 200 sextil- Previously, there was no TV and no inter- and mixed by Jens Schölzchen; produced and lion. These are perhaps more stars than there net, no radio and no phone and no navigation written by Matthias Rode.) are grains of sand on the whole Earth. If we equipment. At that time, people used to sleep said: “The stars have been there for 24 hours, a lot more often outside at night, because they In this projection we will be able to see ap- then we would have to say we humans as liv- did not have houses like we have today. And proximately 2500 stars as soon as our eyes will ing beings have only existed for a second. then they were watching the stars while fall- have adjusted to the darkness. This is quite a Thus, the stars existed very long before us ing asleep. And at some point, someone might lot of stars, but these are by far not all stars in humans. One thing is clear: before a person have said, “Hey guys look, those seven stars, I the universe. can develop, a planet like the Earth has to be saw them yesterday and the day before; and Researchers estimate the number of stars to there first. And before a planet can arise, there last week too! I promise you; they will be there 100 sextillion. We can hardly imagine what first has to be a star like the sun. Therefore, we again tomorrow!” And they will. Every night 100 sextillion means. What we can imagine is humans were created only as a last resort. the stars appear to us in the same order. a tablespoon full of sand. If we were to count But as long as there have been people, we And because there are so many stars, the peo- the grains of sand on a tablespoon, this would look up at night to the sky. We explore the sky ple agreed upon the imagination, that some probably take a long time, because it is quite by night, we see the stars and we are guided by stars would belong together. Those stars that a fumbling. the stars. Former times people have probably belong together, we call constellations. I After a while we would probably come to a number that is about as large as the num- ber of stars we now see here in the planetari- um: 2500. The number of stars in the universe, however, is about as large as the number of grains of sand in the Sahara desert. The Saha- Matthias ra Desert in Africa is about 6 feet high covered Rode, winner with sand and has about the size of the United of “Pages of States of America. Stars” 2015, in This is an unimaginably large number, action in his which reminds us that we cannot know much dome. Photos provided by about the stars, because we are not even able Matthias Rode. to count them. 90 Planetarian March 2016 Seeking What Works The IPS Education Committee Jeanne E. Bishop Westlake Schools Planetarium 24525 Hilliard Road Westlake, Ohio 44145 USA 440-871-5293 jeanneebishop@wowway.com Calling all who teach astronomy in planetariums, museums, and schools! 1. Please share how you teach an astronomy concept in a video from Mexican facilities attended, along with invited presenters from uploaded to YouTube. Mexico and other countries. 2. If you have not yet done so, please take the Education Survey I was happy to give two programs on “Cognitive Development, As- online. tronomy Education and Applications for School Planetarium Programs.” I thank Jesús Mendoza Álvarez of CONACYT (the National The IPS video education project Council for Science and Technology) for the invitation. If you are involved in teaching at any planetarium, or if you are a The new Cozumel planetarium, named Cha’an Ka’an (Mayan for museum or classroom astronomy educator, we really want to see a vid- “Enjoy the Sky”), highlights Maya heritage and has excellent Maya dis- eo of one of your lessons, placed on YouTube, and then viewed by oth- plays, as well as the most up-to-date planetarium technology. From the er planetarium educators to get ideas for their own lessons. vantage point of a few blocks away, on the sixth floor of my hotel, the In earlier columns (June and September 2015) I described the IPS Education Video Project, led by Oded Kindermann of Argentina. Al- though I listed many different topics and considerations for making the video, the technical issues remained vague. Therefore I asked two people with strong technical abilities who have worked in planetariums in the Cleveland, Ohio, area to prepare a list of concrete guidelines for making an educational video. Wes Or- loff and Jay Reynolds worked with Oded to produce the following di- rections on how to record and then upload to YouTube. The main purpose of the educational video effort is to collect teach- ing ideas that can be viewed by others involved in astronomy educa- tion. It is not intended that any of these videos will be shown direct- ly to students. Rather, the videos should give ideas on procedures that can be adapted in other planetariums, museums, and schools. Small glitches, such as missed words and coughing, are not a prob- lem. In other words, please do not think you need to produce a perfect, professional picture. Please make a video, short or long, in or out of the planetarium, and upload to YouTube. Then send notice to the IPS vid- eo project leader Oded at okindermann@gmail.com. To get you started, please see the Recording Guidelines for the IPS Video Education Project on page 92. The online education survey It’s not too late to take part in the education survey. Go to the IPS website, select “Committees” from the list of choices in blue print, move right and select “ad hoc committees,” then “education.” You will see a request to take the education survey. When you click to take the survey, you will see a list of questions, and IPS webmaster helpfully has included a bar graph to show how previous survey-takers have answered. There are some open-ended questions as well as choices. Committee member Rachel Thompson will be using the survey data to prepare a Planetarian article that looks at similarities and dif- ferences in planetarium education worldwide. Please take the survey Top: Jeanne Bishop at the Cha’an Ka’an Planetarium, Cozumel, Mexico. In- and be included. Go to: www.ips-planetarium.org/surveys/default. set: A ceiba tree, the sacred Mayan yaax che, the tree of life. Mayans be- asp?id=edcommsurvey. lieved that the sky counterpart to the terrestrial ceiba was located at the intersection of the Milky Way and the ecliptic. This particular small cei- The International 2nd Festival of Planetariums ba with green bark and thorns grows in the nature area beside the Cha’an Ka’an Planetarium. Photo by Jeanne Bishop. Below: Tochtli, the inquisitive I was privileged to participate in a wonderful planetarium confer- rabbit, learns about telescopes in a scene from his fulldome program. Im- ence held in Cozumel, Mexico, December 2-4, 2015. Many planetarians age courtesy Planetarium Torreón. March 2016 Planetarian 91 planetarium seemed to be an oasis in the Folklore, and Calendars by Susan Milbrath (Uni- midst of rainforest. versity of Texas Press, Austin, 1999) to prepare a Cozumel was regarded as one of the three planetarium program about Maya astronomy. Maya sacred locations, the Temple of the I was grateful to learn more about the Maya Moon Goddess Ichtal, probably most often while I visited Cozumel and the Cozumel Plan- reached from the south by sea. etarium, and I plan to add my new photographs The Maya Sacred Tree of Creation, where and knowledge to this program. the ecliptic and Milky Way intersect, was I was very impressed with a project of the identified as a ceiba. Some Maya also saw a Planetarium Torreón, a fulldome presenta- ceiba tree in the stars of the Southern Cross. tion in which an adorable rabbit, Tochtli, vis- In spite of being in Mexico before, I had its many observatories, learning about the never seen a ceiba tree. With the help of plan- work that is done there. Many of the staff of etarium staff, I was delighted to find one small the Torreon Planetarium, which is directed ceiba with its green bark and thorns growing by Eduardo Hernandez, endured strenuous ef- along a nature walk outside of the Cozumel forts to make this excellent educational pro- Planetarium and another large one in front of gram. I hope that many will be able to see it the Park Royal Cozumel Hotel, where every- next summer at the fulldome festival in Brno one stayed. or at the IPS meeting in Warsaw. Two years ago I visited several Maya sites in I thank the Torreon staff for their friend- Guatemala and Mexico. I took many photo- ship and for giving me a small stuffed Tochtli graphs and studied several authoritative books, (“Toch”) as a remembrance of this very special such as Star Gods of the Maya: Astronomy in Art, conference. I Advertising poster for Tochtli program, cour- tesy Planetarium Torreón Recording guidelines for the IPS video education project General instructions: Introduce yourself and your topic at the begin- there also are “selfie sticks” that have camera hold- After editing you are ready to upload your com- ning of your video presentation. You can record your ers that unscrew and can be mounted on a tripod pleted video to YouTube for distribution. presentation in the planetarium or an alternate loca- with your camera. Do an online search for sources. tion if you feel the conditions are better. Stay close (within 6 feet) of your subject when YouTube upload procedure: In order to avoid “talking heads,” have some close recording, as this will improve both audio and vid- In order to upload your video to YouTube, you ups of the person presenting. Try to include short eo quality. must first sign up for an account (if you don’t al- video clips of things pertinent to your topic. For When your video has been recorded, use an ed- ready have one, of course). This is a fairly simple example, these could be NASA photos, equipment, iting application so you can cut and paste clips to- procedure. Go to www.youtube.com and click “sign books you use, etc. Be aware of copyright law if us- gether in the order you want and eliminate unwant- in.” If you don’t have a Google account (because ing protected material. Make sure you have consent ed scenes. There are many free editors available YouTube is a Google subsidiary), select “new ac- if you are photographing students or others. from your application store. count” and follow the steps. Here is a link that ex- You can later edit these video clips together to Most phone cameras have a digital zoom feature plains the process: www.youtube.com/watch?v=j_ make a smooth presentation. Don’t forget to narrate that is activated by spreading or pinching the image y7rrfftbk&feature=youtu.be. the video clips so they will flow together smooth- on the screen. Zooming in actually reduces the quali- Select a descriptive title for your project and pre- ly after editing. If possible, use a microphone while ty of your image, so try to minimize its use. cede it with the letters IPS followed by a space. This recording. Poor audio greatly reduces the quality of will allow others to search all of the IPS projects on your presentation. Using a camcorder or digital camera: YouTube as they are submitted. As an example, your When recording any video, start the recording a Before recording, turn on image stabilization if project on how you teach moon phases might have a few seconds before you start talking. When finished, your device provides it. As with all methods, use a name like IPS BishopMoonPhases. leave a few seconds at the end. This will make it eas- tripod or other device to reduce camera movement. At this point you should select tags that will en- ier to edit and the blanks can be removed during ed- Select the 1080 video resolution on your camera able users to search for your video, such as IPS video iting. before recording your video. Cameras often provide project, astronomy education, etc. Refer to the fol- You can do several things to improve the quali- several resolutions from which to choose, i.e. 460, lowing link for suggestions to help you best identify ty of your video: 720, 1080. If you do not have 1080, select the high- your video: youtu.be/jVFYOq89spw. • Use a tripod, beanbag, or flat surface to sta- est available resolution. When you have completed the information, bilize your recording device. If your camera Consider using a microphone during your record- choose “upload.” It may take a long time for the up- has image stabilization, make sure it is on. ing to improve the audio quality, if your camera is load to complete, especially if your video is long. • Make sure you have plenty of light in the lo- equipped for one. Captioned Videos can be added if you would cation you choose for recording (unless you Optical zoom lenses (as opposed to just a digital like to offer the viewer a choice of languages oth- are using an infrared recording device in low zoom feature) can be very helpful, particularly when er than English. If you do the captions in English, You- light, of course). You might be able to use an your subject is some distance from the camera. How- Tube will convert your captions to any one of 60 overhead projector or similar equipment as a ever, try to avoid excess zooming, as this quickly can other languages that may be selected by the view- light source if you do not have photo lamps. become a distraction. Use a slow, steady zoom rath- er. You write the captions, upload them to You- • Pick a quiet environment. If there is an inter- er than a quick zoom. Optical zoom lenses do not re- Tube, select your previously-uploaded video file ruption, simply re-record that portion. duce the quality of your video like digital zooms do. and merge the captions. Refer to the following for You may find it helpful to use index cards to story- Please use a digital camera, not VHS or other old- instructions for captioning: www.youtube.com/ board your presentation before you actually record er analog recording device because these require a watch?v=9K4WJs94FfY I your video. much more complicated editing system. The record- ing would still need to be converted to digital for If you’re using a phone camera: the IPS YouTube distribution. Join IPS at Turn your camera on its side to capture the video When your recordings are complete, transfer in a horizontal, rather than vertical, format. Be sure them to a computer where they can be edited. Most www.ips-planetarium.org to use the rear high definition camera on your phone Mac users have a free digital video editor included to capture the best quality. with the computer. Windows users can download a In addition to a beanbag or tripod stabilization, free editor from Microsoft. 92 Planetarian March 2016 March 2016 Planetarian 93 Book Reviews April S. Whitt Fernbank Science Center 156 Heaton Park Drive NE Atlanta, Georgia 30307 USA april.whitt@fernbank.edu Life Beyond Earth that assumption would be correct. The authors pay particular atten- tion to the new US Next Generation Science Standards (NGSS) via a se- By Athena Coustenis and Thérèse Encrenaz, Cambridge Universi- ries of student-centered learning experiences, some of which the read- ty Press, 2013. Reviewed by Stephen Case, Strickler Planetarium, Olivet er probably will recognize. There are suggested teaching strategies that Nazarene University, Bourbonnais, Illinois, USA. involve students in the three-dimensional learning process and cross- I recently reviewed a book on planets (Planets: Ours and Others, cutting concepts touted by NGSS. 2014) by Encrenaz, an astronomer who studies planetary atmospheres, The book is organized into the following four chapters, each of for Planetarian (September 2015). This volume, written in conjunc- which deals with disciplinary core ideas contained in NGSS: tion with Coustenis, another planetologist, covers much of the same • Understanding and tracking the daily motion of the sun ground, but this time uses the overarching framework of the quest for • Understanding and tracking the annual motion of the sun and life in the universe. the seasons The authors begin with the necessary biochemical background to • Solar activity and space weather life and its development and then examine the inner and outer solar • The sun, the moon, and the Earth together: phases, eclipses and system (both now and at various points in the evolution of our plan- more etary system) to conclude where (and when) the emergence of life Each chapter identifies the specific performance expectations, dis- might be possible. The book then explores the field of exoplanetary ciplinary core ideas, science practices and crosscutting concepts from discovery and concludes with a discussion on the future of manned NGSS that apply. The learning experiences follow the 5E instructional space exploration. model developed by the Biological Sciences Curriculum Study (BSCS) The question of life provides a compelling framework for the dis- and the authors give a nice explanation of the 5E instructional model. cussion. It’s also, of course, the one we often get from students and vis- The 5E’s, by the way, are: engage, explore, explain, elaborate, and itors. Can it exist elsewhere in the cosmos? What does contemporary evaluate. astronomy research say? Encrenaz and Coustenis provide a rigorous, In addition, the think-pair-share learning strategy is explained, though accessible, introduction to the biochemical nature of terrestri- along with the use of an astronomy lab notebook, both of which are al life and use this as a lens to examine the rest of the universe. encouraged in the book. It’s a statement of the dynamic nature of the field that a book writ- ten in 2013 is already out of date (in discussion of Rosetta, New Hori- zons, and current exoplanet missions, for instance). Yet regardless of Free booklet from the NSTA the results of these missions, the authors do a great job of explaining why these results will be so compelling for these overarching ques- The National Science Teachers Association is making an 8-page tions. booklet full of information from the book Solar Science available free of charge to educators in and out of the classroom. Solar Science: Exploring Sunspots, Seasons, The path of the August 21, 2017 total eclipse is only about 60 miles wide and goes from a beach in Oregon to a beach in South Eclipses and More Carolina, crossing the country diagonally. A partial eclipse will By Dennis Schatz and Andrew Fraknoi, NSTA (National Science be visible to 500 million people in the other parts of the US and Teachers Association) Press, 2015. Reviewed by Gary Tomlinson, Roger North America. B. Chaffee Planetarium (retired), Grand Rapids, Michigan, USA It is not too early to start thinking about how and where best This timely 350-page book, designed for educators (specifically to see this sky event. Eclipse enthusiasts are already busy reserv- grades 5-8), is jam-packed full of well-designed and supported class- ing lodging and viewing space in the narrow region where the to- room activities. Many of the activities could be adapted for higher tal phase can be seen. grades as well as for informal education. The NSTA has the popular-level introduction to help explain the The authors are two of the most renowned, and highly-respected, as- eclipse and how to view it available at www.nsta.org/publications/ tronomy educators in the United States and beyond, so one would ex- press/extras/files/solarscience/SolarScienceInsert.pdf. I pect nothing short of the highest quality educational publication. And 94 Planetarian March 2016 Rhode Island, USA. If ever two men weren’t the type someone would consider entrepreneurs, the Wright brothers certainly would be a terrific choice. They were simple workers who owned a bi- cycle shop in Dayton, Ohio, the sons of a minister, and never left the family home. And yet Wilbur and Orville Wright changed the way we travel and the way wars are fought (although they were very unhappy about that), without any scandalous or un- toward action in either of their lives. Illustrations of an open pinhole projector and a box projector from Solar Science: Exploring Sunspots, Seasons, Although born four years apart, Wilbur Eclipses and More. NSTA, used with permission. (the elder) and Orville were similar in their lifestyles: they both dressed well, loved mu- sic, loved to cook, had a fervent sense of fam- Within each chapter, learning experiences contain clearly stated in- ily, and shared an incredible work ethic. formation: In 1893, they opened their first bicycle shop. It was so popular that • A general description of the experience they quickly moved to a larger facility and began to make custom- • What the students should learn from the experience ized bicycles. It was when Orville was struck down with typhoid that • What materials to have assembled before beginning Wilbur started reading to him about aviation enthusiast Otto Lilien- • What advance preparation is needed before beginning thal, who had gone up in the air in gliders, believing that the secret to • Step-by-step directions for students flight was to study the wings of birds. Hot-air balloons held no fasci- • Suggested questions to ask students as well as answers to those nation for him, as human flight must be by ”free motion in the air, in questions any direction.” This created an intense longing in Wilbur to fly, and • Alternative approaches to deal with different classroom struc- his brother, when well, followed Wilbur in his studies of avian flying tures maneuvers. The National Science Teachers Association (NSTA) has established a From these readings, the fire of flight began. For several years their web site containing support material to accompany this book, includ- experiments were just an avocation, but soon the time came for actu- ing PDF versions of student forms, material templates, and handouts. I al flight testing. would suggest that readers go to that web site and download and save The choice of Kitty Hawk for their original flight experiments re- those PDF files separately. Past experience indicates that such web sites sulted in years of trial and error, but it showed what two people with are not perpetual. determination on their side can accomplish. This book also came with a surprise, a 15-page observation guide on David McCullough, in The Wright Brothers, takes us from the early the upcoming solar eclipse crossing the United States in 2017 (most of days of the brothers to their brushes with wealth and fame. Through- the information contained in this booklet is also in the primary book out their lives, from the first miserable attempts to get off the ground, as well), as well as a pair of safe solar viewing glasses. to their flights with royalty, politicians, and all sorts of the rich and fa- While there are ample warnings in the book on safe solar viewing, mous, they never lost their sense of humility, and their devotion to one of their suggested indirect viewing methods caused me great con- family. cern. Although this book is fairly long, and at times you might wonder While the pinhole projection method (see diagram) using two pieces how much detail Mr. McCullough can place into a biographical tome, of cardboard is safe when done correctly, I have actually observed peo- the end result is the reader with a full and accurate idea of the lives and ple (and not just children) position themselves between the pinhole times of the brothers who, for all intents and purposes, gave us the abil- and projection surface, face the sun and look through the pinhole di- ity to travel anywhere in the world quickly and safely. For all who are rectly at the sun (that obviously is not safe). looking for an in-depth insight into the Wright brothers and the histo- That’s why I like the pinhole projection set-up using a box with the ry of flight, this book is a perfect choice. pinhole in an upper corner where it is physically impossible to get one’s eye positioned to directly view the sun. This is the one where How I Killed Pluto and Why It Had It Coming you put your head inside the large box. Mike Brown, Random House Publishing, 2010. Reviewed by Kevin The authors have come up with an improvement on that set-up by Tambara, Albert Einstein Distinguished Educator Fellow, Bert Lynn using a shoe box with a viewing port so you have a darkened view Middle School, Torrance, California, USA screen inside the box and you just look into the box via the viewing Every educator knows that students want the correct answer; in port. This set-up also makes it impossible to look through the pinhole other words, they want to be right. In our Google-driven society, we directly at the sun. expect the answers to appear instantly at the touch of our fingertips. One unexpected advantage of this book is that since it incorporates This is often the case in school, especially in science classes, which typ- the paradigm-shifted teaching methodology of NGSS, using it could ically introduce new concepts and vocabulary on a weekly basis. How- help teachers understand NGSS better. All-in-all, this excellent book ever, Mike Brown’s book How I Killed Pluto and Why It Had It Coming is is a self-contained teacher’s guide/activity book that has done most of a refreshing, down-to-Earth reminder that science isn’t about having the work for you, a sort of “one-stop shopping” resource for the class- the correct answer, but rather seeking a better answer that explains our room teacher and planetarian. observations about the world. Brown takes us along as he navigates the dynamic, precarious, and The Wright Brothers often messy process of how science impacts how we all think, and By David McCullough, Simon & Schuster, 2015. Reviewed by Fran- also how society influences scientific outcomes. After reading Brown’s cine Jackson, University of Rhode Island Planetarium, Providence, (Continues on page 96) March 2016 Planetarian 95 Waxing New An eclectic collection about planetariums, products, and people Compiled by Sharon Shanks Emera Astronomy Center to the University of Maine in Orono. He is the new ex- ecutive director of the May- nard F. Jordan Planetarium and Emera Astronomy Cen- ter. The former planetarium director, Alan Davenport, re- tired last year. Shawn also made a huge “hop” when he moved from the Imiloa Astronomy Cen- ter Planetarium to the plane- Shawn Laatsch moves to Maine tarium at Infoversum several I’ve heard about globe trotting and puddle years ago. jumping, but I’ve never heard the term ”dome hopping” before. I think I’ll make it up. Observing the Pale Red Dot ma Centauri is the closest known star to the Dome hopping is not unusual in the plane- The European Southern Observatory is in sun. Previous observations have provided tan- tarium field, and we have had our share late- the midst of a unique outreach campaign that talising, but weak, hints of a small companion ly. For example, Kris McCall has moved from allows the general public to follow scientists orbiting this red dwarf star, but this new cam- Sudekum Planetarium in Nashville, Tenessee from around the globe as they search for an paign will make a more sensitive search for the to the Cernan Earth and Space Center at Tri- Earth-like exoplanet around the closest star to telltale wobbles in the dwarf star’s orbital mo- ton College in River Grove, Illinois. Bart Ben- us, Proxima Centauri. tion that might reveal the presence of an Earth- jamin retired from Triton. Mike Murry, from Called the Pale Red Dot, the observing cam- like orbiting planet. Clark Planetarium in Salt Lake City, Utah is paign started in January and runs to April Observations will be made with the High now at the Delta College Planetarium in Bay 2016, and is accompanied by blog posts and Accuracy Radial velocity Planet Searcher City, Michigan, filling shoes left by the retire- social media updates. In the months follow- (HARPS), attached to ESO’s 3.6-metre telescope ment of Garry Beckstrom. I’m sure there are ing the observations, the scientists will anal- at La Silla Observatory. The HARPS data will more I’ve forgotten. yse the data and submit the results to a peer- be complemented by images from an assort- One of the largest “hops” in terms of dis- reviewed journal. ment of robotic telescopes located across the tance was made by IPS President-Elect Shawn At a distance of just 4.2 light-years, Proxi- world. Laatsch, from Infoversum in The Netherlands The telescopes that comprise the Burst Op- tical Observer and Transient Exploring Sys- tem (BOOTES) and the Las Cumbres Observa- (Books, continued from page 95) a “mystery box” activity, during which they tory Global Telescope Network (LCOGT) will book, the reader may be surprised to learn are given a small box containing several un- support the search by measuring the bright- that the number of solar system objects that known household items, such as coins, but- ness of Proxima Centauri every night during were considered planets has fluctuated up and tons, a bell, or a marble, and are tasked with the project. down over the past 200 years. For example, determining what’s inside the box, with- These observations will help astronomers seven planets in the 1700s, eleven in the ear- out opening the box. I nail and glue the lids determine whether any detected wobbles in ly 1800s, an additional dozen or so in the mid- shut to thwart the most determined kids from the star’s motion are caused by features on its 1800s (including a big one called Neptune), a making “break”-through discoveries! turbulent surface or by an orbiting planet. pruning of many pretenders to eight in the During the activity they realize the dif- Learn more at palereddot.org. I early 1900s, and a ninth, Pluto, in 1939. ference between making an educated guess Ten years ago Brown’s research at Cal Tech based on evidence and an unfounded hunch. led to his discovery of a potential 10th “plan- The most interesting part is when I collect the John Burgess et-like” body, which triggered a worldwide boxes and put them away unopened. After Long-time planetarian John Burgess discussion among scientists and lay people protests about fairness, an enlightening class passed away in January, 2016 in Atlan- alike about what exactly was a planet. Brown discussion usually occurs about how the box ta at the age 79. Formerly with Fernbank recounts with “blow by blow” insight how represents our world and why we are not able Science Center, John had a particular in- the International Astronomical Union even- to truly know what‘s inside the box. terest in archaeoastronomy. He also did tually kicked Pluto out the “planet club” in The students then devise hypothetical ex- a couple of interim stints at Rollins Plan- 2006, and likely with it Xena, Brown’s candi- periments based on existing technology to etarium at Young Harris College (Geor- date for planetary status. redo their observations. They realize that gia) when it was between planetarium The notion that we may not ever truly through the judicious choice of equipment, directors, including just before I was understand the nature of some aspect of our some complex (x ray machines) and some sim- hired in 2005. world is often an unsettling one for students, ple (magnets, scales), they can confidently get —Steve Morgan who want, and expect, correct answers. Ear- closer to a more accurate representation of the ly in the school year I have my students do truth than before. I 96 Planetarian March 2016 March 2016 Planetarian 97 Edge of Darkness Ad 4.indd 1 1/22/2016 10:55:03 AM Planetarians’ Calendar of Events www.astrofilibresciani.it/Planetari/Internationa_Calendar.htm Compiled by Loris Ramponi - osservatorio@serafinozani.it 2 0 1 6 International Year of Pulses 12-15 July and 18-21 July. Spitz Summer Institute 2016, Chadds Ford 13 March. International Day of Planetaria. www.dayofplanetaria.org (near Philadelphia), Pennsylvania, USA. Planetarium educators’ 16-20 March. IMERSA Summit 2016. Denver Museum of Nature & development and training (12-15 July Beginner/Intermediate ses- Science, Denver, Colorado, USA. Contact: info@imersa.org, www. sion; 18-21 July Intermediate/Advanced session) for SciDome/Star- imersa.org ry Night Dome/TLE users. Curriculum, program creation, and live 31 March. New deadline of PlanIt Prize for an original video produc- presentation of astronomy and earth science for the digital plan- tion, organized each year by Italian Association of Planetaria (Pla- etarium. www.spitzinc.com/Institute or contact: jtowne@spitzinc. nIt), Italy. The prize is open to everyone. First prize 500 euro. www. com planetari.org 27-30 July. Middle Atlantic Planetarium Society (MAPS), Annu- 4-5 April. The Australasian Planetarium Society (APS), Meeting al Conference, James E. Richmond Science Center, St. Charles 2016, Carter Observatory, Wellington, New Zealand. Contact: County High School, Waldorf, Maryland, USA. Contact: Patty Contact: Shane Hengst, s.hengst@unsw.edu.au; apsplanetarium. Seaton, pxts13@yahoo.com; www.mapsplanetarium.org com/2015/07/31/announcing-aps-2016-wellington-new-zealand 9-11 August. Fiske Full Dome Film Festival, Fiske Planetarium-Univer- 22-24 April. Italian Association of Planetaria (PlanIt), XXXI National sity of Colorado Boulder, Boulder, Colorado, USA. Contact: Thor Conference, Bari Planetarium, Fiera del Levante, Bari, Italy, www. Metzinger, thormetzinger@gmail.com planetari.org; contact: osservatorio@serafinozani.it 10-12 August. Live Interactive Planetarium Symposium (LIPS), Spitz 30 April–2 May. Gesellschaft Deutschsprachiger Planetarien e.V., GDP Inc., Chadds Ford (near Philadelphia), Pennsylvania, USA. Contact: 2016, Annual meeting of Society of German-Speaking Planetari- jtowne@spitzinc.com; cseale@spitzinc.com; LIPSymposium.org ums, Munster, Germany. www.gdp-planetarium.org 15 September. Deadline for the applicants of “A Week in Italy for an 20-22 May. Association of French Speaking Planetariums (APLF), American Planetarium Operator,” in collaboration with IPS Por- Yearly Meeting, Coupole de Saint-Omer, Nord-Pas de Calais, France. table Planetarium Committee. www.astrofilibresciani.it/Planetari/ www.aplf-planetariums.org Week_in_Italy/Week_Italy.htm 16-20 May 2016. CAP 2016, Communicating astronomy with the pub- 21-23 September. Digistar Users Group, conference, planetarium at lic, Parque Explora, Planetario de Medellin, IAU, Medellin, Colom- University of Texas at Arlington, Texas. Contact: planetarium@uta. bia. www.planetariomedellin.org/cap2016/english-version edu; 817-272-1183; www.uta.edu/planetarium; www.facebook.com/ 18 May. International Museums Day, icom.museum utaplanetarium 18-21 May. Madrid Immersive Festival 2016, Universidad Com- 24-27 September. Association of Science-Technology Centers (ASTC) plutense de Madrid, Spain. Contact: Diego De Anna, welcome@ Annual Conference, MOSI, Museum of Science and Industry, Tam- immersivefest.com; www.newmedia.events pa, Florida, USA. www.astc.org 26-28 May. 10th FullDome Festival in the Jena Zeiss-Planetarium, 23-25 September. British Association of Planetaria (BAP), annu- “Frameless Frenzy,” Jena Zeiss-Planetarium, Germany. Grand open- al meeting, At-Bristol, United Kingdom. Contact: BAP President, ing 25 May (in the evening). Contact: info@fulldome-festival.de or Mark Watson, m.watson.bap@gmail.com; www.planetaria.org.uk; Schorcht Volkmar, schorcht@zeiss.de, www.fulldome-festival.de bapconference.org.uk 31 May – 4 June. SEPA (Southeastern Planetarium Association)-WAC 19-22 October. Great Lakes Planetarium Association, GLPA Con- 2016 Conference, Western Alliance Conference (Pacific Planetari- ference, Longway Planetarium, Flint, Michigan, USA. www. um Association, Southwestern Association of Planetariums, Great glpaweb.org; contact Todd Slisher and/or Jeff Stark at tslisher@ Plains Planetarium Association, and Rocky Mountain Planetarium sloanlongway.org; jstark@sloanlongway.org (A GLIPSA workshop Association), W. A. Gayle Planetarium, Troy University, Montgom- will preceed on October 18) ery, Alabama, USA. www.wacdomes.org 8 December. Deadline of the Stratoscript Compendium Ring 2014, 9-11 June. European Network Science Centres & Museums (ECSITE), a scripting competition open to everybody by LSS-Planetarium. 2016 Annual Conference, “Colours of cooperation,” FRida & freD Contact: lionel.ruiz@live.fr; www.lss-planetariums.info/index.php Children’s Museum, Joanneum Universal Museum, Association ?lang=en&menu=compendium&page=compendium2013 ScienceCenter Network, Graz, Austria. www.ecsite.eu. 16-18 December. Workshop LSS-Planetarium, Jardin des Sciences, 15-17 June. IPS Fulldome Festival Brno 2016, Brno Observatory and Strasbourg France. Contact: lionel.ruiz@live.fr Planetarium, Kravi hora 2, Brno, Czech Republic. The festival is 31 December. Deadline of the prize “Page of stars” organized by jointly organized by the International Planetarium Society. Con- IPS Portable Planetarium Committee in collaboration with Se- tact: Jiri Dusek, director@hvezdarna.cz; www.fulldomefestivalbrno. rafino Zani Astronomical Observatory. Contact: Susan Reyn- com olds Button, sbuttonq2c@gmail.com; www.ips-planetarium. 18-19 June. International Planetarium Society Council Meeting, War- org/?page=pagesofstars saw, Poland. For corrections and new information for the Calendar of Events, please 19-25 June. Revolve, 23rd International Planetarium Society Con- send a message to Loris Ramponi at osservatorio@serafinozani.it More ference, Heavens of Copernicus Planetarium, Copernicus Science details about several of these upcoming events is included in the Interna- Center, Warsaw, Poland. Contact: info@ips2016.org; Monika Ma- tional News column in this issue. linowsky, monika@ips2016.org; Maciej Ligowski, maciej.ligowski@ kopernik.org.pl The most up-to-date information also is available online at the IPS Calen- dar of Events at www.ips-planetarium.org 30 June. International Asteroid Day. www.asteroidday.org 3-9 July. ICOM 2016, 24th General Conference, Museum and cul- How to organize an eco-friendly planetarium conference: www. tural landscapes, International Council of Museums, Milan, Italy. scienzagiovanissimi.it/best-practices network.icom.museum/icom-milan-2016 98 Planetarian March 2016 7 March 2016 Planetarian 99 Last Light April S. Whitt Fernbank Science Center 156 Heaton Park Drive NE Atlanta, Georgia 30307 USA april.whitt@fernbank.edu “I learned that orion was a person not a cat.” We’ve all had the phone calls and frantic e-mail messages about the side (said?) that I was asleep and I was not awake. Great Planetary Alignment of 2016. When I’ve mentioned the time of Thank you for letting us come to the planetarium and showing us day/night to see the string of planets, enthusiasm remarkably seems to what you get to see every day. wane. “You mean get up in the morning? Before the sun rises?” Some of the stuff you taught me I didn’t know. But, when you Jim Beaber, near Denver, Colorado, shared a prediction for the Amer- taught me I knew it. ican-style football championship (the Superbowl) in February this Thank you for showing us the plantariuun. It is very big. (and we year, given the planets’ locations: only have a 40-foot dome I would just like to add, strictly on a detached, scientific basis, that It was really cool when the ceiling was turning. the current planet set up works out astrologically as follows: You taught us a lot about space it was cold and funny. Jupiter, the king planet, is entering Virgo. Peyton Manning is un- At first, I didn’t have interst in the stars, planets etc. but now I have doubtedly a king; Cam Newton is a “virgin” when it comes to Super- many wonders. bowls. Thank you for letting us come to the atotoream. It was very long. I Mars is in Libra, the scales. Mars has a definite reddish-orange color. almost fell asleep. The scales will tilt towards the Denver Broncos. I might visit the planetteareaum again. Saturn, the keeper of time and god of old men, will definitely favor I hope we can come again next time. If we can I will be the first one Peyton Manning, the god of old quarterbacks. to wave at you. Venus, the goddess of beauty, is caught between Scorpio and Sagit- I got dizzy when the walls moved. tarius. The game could get ugly. Did you know we are so small you will be scard? I do not really like Mercury is entering Sagittarius. Sagittarius favors Broncos, feeling that. Do you?” a kinship there. Peyton will be throwing arrows all Superbowl, but Do you know all the galaxies I don’t I know all the planets. things could change in a hurry. …one thing really scared me you said the sun was going to blo up! I know its 6 billion or trillion years from now but I’m still scared. Are It’s all how you look at it you worried are you its really scary that it will happen I thought god It’s all a matter of perception. Fernbank Science Center rented Pris- are father controled are solier systume. Would he actully kill us all! If matic Magic’s laser system to showcase Black History Laser Tribute for he did it would be very suprising! our school and public audiences. I think after that trip I want to become an astrunat. During the program, laser images of musicians, the Tuskegee airmen, I was surprised to see how much stuff I learned. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and others are shown in chronological or- And I didn’t know that ‘Beatljuice’ was a word. der, with a calendar “rolling back” the year numbers at the start of the I know that the sun wsn’t a star… That was my fourth time com- program. Each of the musicians’ birth and death dates are shown. For ing there. example, “Louis Armstrong 1901-1971” lights up after his rendition of I already knew that mars was very hot. “What A Wonderful World.” Now I now more!! Fifth graders were in the audience for one of the programs, and after My favorite part was when we were spinning around in circles. Chuck Berry’s piece, the dates “1926 – “ appeared. I heard one horrified Can you send me some space ice cream? If you can’t send me a ball, student whisper, “He’s still alive.” OK? Astronomy rules! More feedback from the kids I learn that Jupiter has a storm … and it was called the red spot be- And some more thank you notes from young planetarium visitors, cause its red and it’s a spot. courtesy Keith Johnson at Edelman Planetarium in Glassboro, New Jer- I loved your presitation. But I still beleave in Aliens! sey. As always, the spelling is unchanged. I loved how you showed the stars in the huge thing. I learned that Roy and the Squaripan are on the oppisite sides.” (This …when it got dark, I was scared. But, when I saw the wonderful stars, refers to Orion and the Scorpion, which are indeed in opposite sides of it looked very very cool. Also that bear was even better than the stars the sky, hence never in the sky together.) before. I learned that orion was a person not a cat. ( I think this refers to a It takes Jupiter like 1,000,000,000, years to revolve. You did a great movie character. Email the name of that movie to me. Win a prize.) job with the planetarium. (Evidently not as great a job as I should have!) Thank you for makeing the char’s cumfey. I learned that the bear with the long tail had a long tail. You definetly know a lot more about stars than I do. You rock more than any meteor in the universe! I am sorry that some kids was talking. I don’t know if I was. I didn’t know that much about the soloar system only that planets Sorry you were disrespictful. and stars are in it. I liked the show. It was naet. I don’t know why I almost fill asleep. Thank you… Sincerley, Alec. P.S. I probaly didn’t spell sincerley That is a good fieldtrip and I was vere sad and happy bot Msr. Wood right. I 100 Planetarian March 2016 Houston_True8K_Ad_Q1.indd 1 1/27/2016 1:43:22 PM