Source: https://botn.info/wp-content/uploads/2019/12/Rules-for-LONGSWORD-DUEL-CATEGORY_v2.0.pdf
Words: 2709

================================================================================

Historical Medieval Battle International Association Rules for LONGSWORD DUEL CATEGORY Rules for LONGSWORD DUEL CATEGORY 1. GENERAL REGULATIONS 1.1 The “Longsword” duel category is represented by the fights, where Important! the number of stout (clear) blows The accepted area excludes open face areas, groin, delivered with the combat part feet, back part of the neck, and back of knees. of the weapons in the accepted area of an opponent is taken iinnttoo aaccccoouunntt.. 1.2 There are no weight categories in the “Longsword”duel category. 1.3 The panel of marshals includes Important! the knight marshal (chief referee), In case of any disagreement the knight marshal field marshals (referees), secretary has the final decision. and authenticity master or officer. 1.4 The “Longsword”duel category fights are held on hard lists, from 7 to 40m of length, from 7 to 20m wide. The height of the side boundaries is from 0.9 to 1.2m. 1.5 The fight consists of 1 round that lasts for 1.5min. The winner is the one who has delivered more stout blows to the opponent during the round. 1.6 For each stout blow to the opponent’s: •• head or torso, the fighter who has delivered it is awarded two points if both arms were in play during the blow. • other accepted area except of head and torso, the fighter who has delivered it is awarded one point if both arms were in play during the blow. • any accepted area, the fighter who has delivered it is awarded one point if only one of arms was in play during the blow. 1.7 AA blow is counted when it was deliberate, clear and was not blocked by the opponent’s defensive action with a sword. 1.8 The blows are counted during the fight. The fighter who has got more points becomes a winner of the fight. 1.9 If the score of the fight is draw then 0.5min of first extra round are to be fought. 1.10 If the score of the first extra round is draw then the second extra round ttoo be fought. The winner of the second extra round is the fighter who gets two points lead over his opponent. www.botn.info 1 Rules for LONGSWORD DUEL CATEGORY 1.11 “Technical victory” with a score 10-0 is awarded to one of the fighters in the following cases: 1.11.1. If an opponent refuses to fight before the beginning of a duel, does not present himself to the lists on call of the knight marshal or fails to prepare his equipment within the time set by the knight marshal. NNoott coming to the fight will lead to a warning (one Yellow card). If the fighter is removed from further participation in the fights (due to injury or disqualification), the “technical victory” is also awarded to his opponent. 1.11.2. If the opponent cannot Important! continue fighting because If the fighter cannot continue the duel due of an “accidental injury” to an injury, resulting from violations of the rules by his opponent, the latter gets a double warning (two Yellow cards) and is removed from 1.11.3. If an opponent gets two participation in the fight. «Technical victory» warnings within the fights (two is awarded to the injured fighter. Yellow cards). 1.11.4. Should factors arise, which, according to the knight marshal, impede the fighter from continuing, namely armor or weapons breakage. If it cannot be fixed or replaced within the allotted time (not more than 1 minute). 22. AUTHENTIC EQUIPMENT 2.1 Only arms and armor which are proven by historical research to be from specific historical period, are allowed in HMB. 2.2 Each fighter must rebate his weapons before the participation in an event so that they are compliant with the specifications stated in this regulatory document. RReebbaattiinngg is rounding of peak and percussion edges of any bladed or pole weapon used in HMB competitions. The radius of rebating is about 10mm (note: it has to match the radius of a coin 20mm in diameter). 2.2.1. The edges of all the striking parts of any weapon are to be rounded as a bevel and be not less than 2mm thick (including any possible chips and notches). 2.3 Fighters must exclusively assume all responsibility for the quality, safety aanndd rreelliiaabbiilliittyy ooff tthhee eelleemmeennttss ooff pprrootteeccttiivvee aarrmmss.. 2.4 The approved protective arms for HMB competitions must be a reconstruction of medieval armor (must have the exact dimensions and general appearance according to its historical reference) and correspond to such characteristics: www.botn.info 2 Rules for LONGSWORD DUEL CATEGORY • compliance with historically proven originals of the XIII- XVII centuries; • authenticity of used materials (metal, leather, fabric, tow, batting, felt); • availability of configuration that completely covers the vital organs and joints of the fighter; • good condition; • thickness of protective material has to meet the requirements (stated below); •• size and proportions of all the protective elements have to meet the requirements; • aesthetic appearance. 2.5 All parts of the equipment (included weapons) have to meet the technical and aesthetic requirements, and represent a complete set of one time period within a span of no greater than 50 years within a region. 2.5.1. The stylized armor elements are allowed only in the following cases: • must be approved by the HMBIA Authenticity Committee (masters/officers); • must be in compliance with “HMB Authenticity Book” requirements; • they serve only to improve the “characteristic” of the “safety” of the fighter’s equipment to carry out the HMB activities; •• in the case of the lack of information concerning the material culture of certain periods and regions. Important! In rare cases, due to the lack of information concerning the material culture of certain periods and regions, a fighter can replace these armor elements with the authentic elements relating to the neighboring regions and periods, but only if everything looks aesthetically and proportionally accurate. Concepts that require further interpretation and explanation: • “Authentic” means material or object that corresponds to a certain historical original, found during the research. The use of authentic materials and items, coming from the original, is approved by the HMB Authenticity Committee. • A “stylized item” refers to an object that has no specific historical analogues, bbuutt is made in compliance with the general style of armor and its proportional, aesthetic and operational characteristics. • Historically proven originals are confirmed through text and visual material (pictures, sculptures, and other documented archaeological sources or the combination of more than one of these), on the basis of which a belonging of a particular object to the group of authentic ones is determined. A historically proven www.botn.info 3 Rules for LONGSWORD DUEL CATEGORY original is needed in case a reenactor intends to use anything considerably different or about which little is known in the community of HRMA. Only a historically authentic original can help to determine whether an object is valid for a decision to be made about the possibility of its use in the HMB activities. 2.5.2. The fighter’s head must be protected with a metal helmet, the safety features and specifications of which comply with the same parameters of a helmet made of steel ST3, 2mm thick. 22..55..33.. The fighter’s helmet has to be equipped either with a well-quilted padded cap, or leather suspension, a “parachute” with a quilted padded cap. The thickness of these elements should be not less than 3 mm for quilted and 5 for padded in a condensed form. 2.5.4. The fighter’s helmet must have a chin strap, which ensures its stability, eliminating any possibility that it may fall off or come loose during combat. 2.5.5. The fighter’s body, legs and arms are to be covered with at least plate armor. Chainmails can be only used as extra protection in addition to plate armor or as the linking elements of plate armor. 22..55..66.. In addition to body armor, the fighter’s body is to be protected with underarmor padding, which covers the whole torso. The minimum allowed protection is woolen (cloth) and linen material sewn together. 2.5.7. The neck and base ooff the skull are to be protected Important! with steel plate-armor element, supplemented with damping Important! If the fighter’s helmet has the chainmail quilted or padded protection, element protections, it is possible put on an additional “circular” rondel (every other shapes of such as a pelerine of the padded that additional protection must be documented by cap, a special collar or a filling. historical sources). Otherwise, it is possible use an AA riveted chain-mail element, with additional padded collar with steel plates, but the plate protection and a those plates must be hidden under or into the protective damping layer, ppaaddddeedd ccoollllaar. is allowed. 2.5.8. The spine and tailbone should have metal plate protection with quilted or padded protection. The thickness of these elements should be not less than 3mm for quilted and 5mm for padded in reinforced form. 2.5.9. The fighter’s hands are to be protected with gloves or gauntlets made ooff steel plates or riveted chainmail. If hand protection is made solely of riveted chainmail, a damping layer no less than 5mm thick in a condensed (reinforced) form must be under it. www.botn.info 4 Rules for LONGSWORD DUEL CATEGORY Important! Only for the “Longsword” duel category are allowed the “closed fists” that are authorized by the authenticity committee. They should copy standard gloves by form. Concepts that require further interpretation and explanation: • For "closed fists" it is meant every hand protection model equipped with a mechanism which blocks the closure of the glove and avoids the loss of the weapon. 2.5.10 The fighter’s elbows and knees must have steel plate protection. If the plate protection doesn’t fit the fighter’s armor, it should be hidden under the authentic element of the set. The minimum level of underarmor protection includes quilted or padded protective layer no less than 10mm thick in a condensed form. 2.5.11 The fighter’s shins and thighs are recommended to be protected with metal armor elements at each side. The minimum level of underarmor protection includes layers of woolen and linen cloth sewn together. 2.5.12 The fighter’s feet Important! are recommended to be protected with metal armor Simple flat rubber soles are allowed on historical shoes. Not hiking rubber soles or similar (with big elements such as “sabatons”. It profile) are allowed. is forbiddenthe use of modern shoes. 2.5.13 The fighter’s groin has be protected with armor elements or hidden protection (an athletic support for contact sports will be sufficient). 2.5.14 The protective complex has to provide a complete and reliable protection to the head, neck, spine and joints in any body position. 22..55..1155 If a fighter represents a time period, when certain parts of the body weren’t covered with protective elements, these areas are to be safely covered with hidden protective elements (Eurasia region of the XIII-XVII centuries), which aren’t registered visually. 2.5.16. If the level of safety of the authentic protective arms Important! does not meet requirements Modern protection, having its own fastening ooff these regulations, a fighter system, can be used only as a tertiary leve should use extra protection made of protection. of other kind of materials (worn only under authentic armor and underarmor). 2.5.17. The fighter must ensure his armor meets protective characteristic standards and check the accuracy and safety of any protective parts before a battle. www.botn.info 5 Rules for LONGSWORD DUEL CATEGORY 2.5.18. The fighter is responsible for the offensive and protective Important! arms he uses in battle, the monitoring of their authenticity, Fighters can only use weapons that are authorized aesthetics, and compliance with by the Authenticity Committee in battles. the requirements stated in this regulatory document. 2.5.19. It is recommended to realize the historical “Surcoats” with materials and colors that have a good historical plausibility, also according to the historical period that it reproduces. It is forbidden to create images, slogans, etc., clearly modern on the surcoats. It is recommended to realize heraldic symbols in accordance with the shapes and colors of clear historical pertinence. 2.6 CChhaarraacctteerriissttiiccss of weapons for the “Longsword” duel category (in effect till the 31st of August 2017): • the length of the blade (from the hilt to the tip) – from 80 to 100cm; • the length of the handle (including a hilt and a pommel) – from 20 to 40cm; • the radius of rounding of the cutting edge is about 10mm (it has to correspond to a coin 20 mm in diameter). • the cutting edge of a blade is not less than 2mm thick and rounded. Important! The Chart «Technical Requirements to HMB Permitted Weapons» contains technical regulations for longswords bladed weapons for “Longsword” duel category that will be effective since the 1st of September 2017. 33. AUTHORIZED FIGHTING TECHNIQUES 3.1 Cutting blows to the opponent’s accepted area delivered with the cutting edge of the weapons. 3.2 Blocking the opponent’s blows with the blade of your weapon. 3.3 Pressing and pushing the opponent with your blade or arms. 3.4 Repulsion of the opponent’s arms with your arms. www.botn.info 6 Rules for LONGSWORD DUEL CATEGORY 5.1.3. The fighter loses his weapon during the fight. 5.1.4. The fighter is passive in the fight. Important! Passiveness is considered to be refusal from active actions against your opponent during a long period of time (not less than 30 sec). 5.1.5. Going out of or falling out of the lists. Important! • Applying a rebuke sanction to one of the fighters is accompanied with awarding his opponent 3 additional points. • Fighters given three rebukes within a fight lose automatically. His opponent is awarded with “a clear victory”. • Rebuke sanctions are NOT to be stated on the record of the tournament or in the personal cards of the fighters. 5.2 Warning (the Yellow Card) is a sanction imposed on the fighter for rule violation, it is to be stated in the record of the competition and it affects the rating of the fighter and his team. The fighter can get a maximum of two yellow cards within the event. Warning (the Yellow card) is given in the following cases: 5.2.1. For applying any prohibited techniques stated in Section 4 “Prohibited Fighting Techniques”. 5.2.2. For applying actions not listed in Section 3 “Authorized Fighting Techniques”. 55..22..33.. For unsportsmanlike behavior, boorishness, bad language, shouting at the referees, the opponents and spectators. 5.2.4. For starting the fight before the command “To the fight!” 5.2.5. For continuing an attack after the command “Stop the fight!” 5.2.6. For ignoring the knight marshal’s commands. Important! For all the aforementioned violations the fighter can get one or two yellow cards at once, depending on the gravity of the violation from the knight marshal’s point of view. www.botn.info 8 Rules for LONGSWORD DUEL CATEGORY 5.2.7. For poor quality, dirty, rusty, dented or not authentic gear the fighter gets the yellow card by the authenticity master. If the fighter enters the list in the same armor, he gets second yellow card. But especially for: • modern shoes or shoes with a visible hiking rubber soles or similar (with big profile); • the use of modern tape, plastic ties and every other modern tool used to repair an element of equipment, if they are too visible; •• the use of images, slogans, etc., clearly modern on the weapons, surcoats, etc.; • the use of every other modern object or decoration on the whole equipment that is clearly too visible. 5.3 Disqualification (the Red card) is a sanction imposed on a fighter for gross or systematic (the second Yellow card) violation of the rules. It should be stated iinn the record of the competition. The sanction implies the fighter’s removal from the further participation in the competition and his substitution with a substitute fighter of the team. ONLY the knight marshal of the tournament has the right to disqualify fighters. Grounds for disqualification: 5.3.1. Systematic violation of the rules, when a fighter is shown two yellow cards within the event. 55..33..22.. Injuring the opponent due to the use of prohibited fighting techniques 5.3.3. Gross and systematic dissents with the referees, groundless appeals against their decisions, insults to the opponents or disrespectful behavior towards them, as well as other parties of the competition. Important! Each red card which is imposed on the fighter automatically becomes the team’s red card. www.botn.info 9