Source: https://archive.nytimes.com/tmagazine.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/06/08/rosie-perezs-prom-night/
Title: Rosie Perez's Prom Night
Words: 2850

================================================================================

Ben Hider/Getty Images It’s hard to believe, but the Oscar-nominated actress Rosie Perez (“Do the Right Thing,” “Pineapple Express”) wasn’t always the sassy, silver-tongued woman we’ve come to recognize. “I had such a bad speech impediment as a result of the emotional trauma I was going through in my life,” Perez says. “I couldn’t even say my name correctly. I would say, “Wosie Pewez.” But when Perez’s fifth grade teacher, Mr. Mackey, asked her to sing one of her favorite Jackson 5 songs, she discovered the impediment disappeared. “It changed me,” she says. Today, Perez is getting ready to M.C. the Prom, a fund-raiser to benefit Urban Arts Partnership, an organization that helps children in impoverished communities around the city and country find their own voice through art. Perez has served as U.A.P.’s artistic board chair for nearly two decades and works one-on-one with students, visiting classrooms throughout the school year. And even while kids will not be invited to this Prom — liquor will be served — she sees it as a way to “champion graduation and also to champion the kids’ effort.” T spoke with Perez about the state of the arts in New York City schools and her plans for the big night. Q. You have a history of being very politically involved and working with a lot of different causes. When did you first become involved with U.A.P. and recognize that there was a need that wasn’t being met? A. It was 19 years ago, after its first year. My ex-husband’s sister Amy Poux created the program as a response to the racial tensions in Crown Heights with the African-American community and the Hasidic community. The kids were getting caught in the middle, and not knowing what was going on. They’d come to school and say, “I can’t stand Jews. Why are those men in those funny hats looking at me funny?” They just didn’t understand what was going on. So she said, “Pick up a camera, do a documentary about it, and find out.” They did and came to school and said, “This fight is stupid.” Amy moved that program from Brooklyn to the Lower East Side, but the program was going to die because of lack of funds, so she asked me for help. So I started teaching a dance class. I started using my political connections. I had lunch with the then councilman on the arts Dick Schwartz and got a nice check from him. I went on “The Rosie O’Donnell Show” and panhandled and said, “Even if you give us $1, we’ll take it.” People were mailing us $1 and we took it and the program was able to survive. I was hooked. What are some of Urban Arts Partnership programs? Story Studios is a great program geared towards the E.S.L. curriculum. We have new immigrants or first-generation Americans tell us their story in their own language, of how they came to this country or being the first person in their family to be born here, and then we have them storyboard it. Then we have them translate it into English with storyboards, and all of a sudden they’ll say, “We took a plane,” and they have a picture of a plane, and their family, and all the emotions around it and the words mean a lot more than just that simple sentence. They absorb English really quickly. Another great program is Fresh Prep, which is for students who are going to take the Regents exam, or more importantly have failed the exam multiple times. Most kids in New York City fail it from one to five times, and you end up with 20-year-olds still in high school still waiting to pass. We take the curriculum and we break it down by subject and put it into hip-hop song. So for instance with the Pythagorean theorem, they learn, “It be the run, the rhyme, the X, the Y, the slope on the graph will tell you how to define.” Music and rhythm transports them someplace else. The right brain is working with the left brain and they’re stimulated, they’re no longer disengaged and they’re getting the meaning. It’s not Schoolhouse Rock. It’s very complex. And in addition to the arts education programs you create, you have big-name artists coming to teach master classes to students, right? We’ve had DMC of Run-DMC teaching spoken-word poetry; Ben Karlin, who was producer of “The Daily Show,” teaching comedy; Francine Prose teaching reading and writing; Michael Kenneth Williams from “The Wire”; Gaby Hoffmann; and Linus Roache, to name a few. David Cross taught a class in our animation program. Celebrities have given in other ways too. The Black Eyed Peas just gave us a lot of money because we were kind of falling behind financially, to the point where we were able to expand our offices, and Will.i.am helped us to build a bigger media lab program for our kids. People have always had this concept of New York City as the ultimate town for artists from across the creative spectrum who want to grow and learn and achieve success. And here we have a whole group of kids going without any arts programming whatsoever. What do you think is the problem? Lack of money. Although politicians say that it’s important and on their agenda, their actions — or rather, lack of action — speak louder than words. I’m sure they’re well intended, but if you don’t try to make policy happen in regards to arts and education, it’s not gonna happen. If you don’t put money behind it, it’s definitely not gonna happen. It irritates me when you hear politicians on the campaign trail saying we need school reform and they do nothing. What do you think about the current state of arts education in New York City? The current state of arts education in New York City is not that great, but it’s doing better than a lot of other states. A lot of that has to do with not-for-profits, and also the deputy mayor — who’s now the chancellor — has always been a champion for arts education. Bloomberg says he is as well, and he has given us grants, but it’s just a drop in the bucket, and the bucket is so wide. People in both the political and corporate world have been ramping up efforts to try to cut funding for federal and local arts organizations across the country. If you could make a plea to those people, what would you say? If you want more greedy, immoral people on Wall Street, keep cutting arts education. If you want the cycle of poverty to continue, keep cutting arts education. But if you want to break that chain on both ends of the spectrum, invest in arts education, because it allows people to grow and learn in a specific way and it also allows people to become more empathetic as human beings, and that’s what we need as well. And if you feel good about yourself, and more importantly, you feel good about the person standing next to you, it’s gonna be a better world. Point blank. People go, “Oh come on,” but really, it’s as simple as that. So let’s talk about the Prom on Wednesday? Who are you going to wear, and who’s your date? My man is my date, and I’m going to be dressed by Nanette Lepore. We are very excited to have her donate her time and her clothes, and I love it because I’m a woman with curves — know what I’m saying? Do you have any good memories from your own prom? I never went to my prom because I couldn’t afford it. And don’t cry for me, Argentina. I hate that. Let me make that point to you: when I get around these kids and I get emotional and I want to cry, I leave the room, because they hate it. They’re like, “Miss Perez, why do you always cry?” They don’t want anyone to feel sorry for them, all they want is opportunities. And they will rise to the occasion every time. Is there any chance you’ll lead a “Soul Train” line at the prom? [Laughs.] Oh my goodness, that’s hilarious. Probably not because I’m not in dancing shape, but now that you put it out there I bet that Rachel Dratch will start it off because she’s just hilarious. The Prom will take place Wednesday, June 8, at the Edison Ballroom. For information or tickets, go to urbanarts.org/events. Ben Hider/Getty Images It’s hard to believe, but the Oscar-nominated actress Rosie Perez (“Do the Right Thing,” “Pineapple Express”) wasn’t always the sassy, silver-tongued woman we’ve come to recognize. “I had such a bad speech impediment as a result of the emotional trauma I was going through in my life,” Perez says. “I couldn’t even say my name correctly. I would say, “Wosie Pewez.” But when Perez’s fifth grade teacher, Mr. Mackey, asked her to sing one of her favorite Jackson 5 songs, she discovered the impediment disappeared. “It changed me,” she says. Today, Perez is getting ready to M.C. the Prom, a fund-raiser to benefit Urban Arts Partnership, an organization that helps children in impoverished communities around the city and country find their own voice through art. Perez has served as U.A.P.’s artistic board chair for nearly two decades and works one-on-one with students, visiting classrooms throughout the school year. And even while kids will not be invited to this Prom — liquor will be served — she sees it as a way to “champion graduation and also to champion the kids’ effort.” T spoke with Perez about the state of the arts in New York City schools and her plans for the big night. You have a history of being very politically involved and working with a lot of different causes. When did you first become involved with U.A.P. and recognize that there was a need that wasn’t being met? It was 19 years ago, after its first year. My ex-husband’s sister Amy Poux created the program as a response to the racial tensions in Crown Heights with the African-American community and the Hasidic community. The kids were getting caught in the middle, and not knowing what was going on. They’d come to school and say, “I can’t stand Jews. Why are those men in those funny hats looking at me funny?” They just didn’t understand what was going on. So she said, “Pick up a camera, do a documentary about it, and find out.” They did and came to school and said, “This fight is stupid.” Amy moved that program from Brooklyn to the Lower East Side, but the program was going to die because of lack of funds, so she asked me for help. So I started teaching a dance class. I started using my political connections. I had lunch with the then councilman on the arts Dick Schwartz and got a nice check from him. I went on “The Rosie O’Donnell Show” and panhandled and said, “Even if you give us $1, we’ll take it.” People were mailing us $1 and we took it and the program was able to survive. I was hooked. What are some of Urban Arts Partnership programs? Story Studios is a great program geared towards the E.S.L. curriculum. We have new immigrants or first-generation Americans tell us their story in their own language, of how they came to this country or being the first person in their family to be born here, and then we have them storyboard it. Then we have them translate it into English with storyboards, and all of a sudden they’ll say, “We took a plane,” and they have a picture of a plane, and their family, and all the emotions around it and the words mean a lot more than just that simple sentence. They absorb English really quickly. Another great program is Fresh Prep, which is for students who are going to take the Regents exam, or more importantly have failed the exam multiple times. Most kids in New York City fail it from one to five times, and you end up with 20-year-olds still in high school still waiting to pass. We take the curriculum and we break it down by subject and put it into hip-hop song. So for instance with the Pythagorean theorem, they learn, “It be the run, the rhyme, the X, the Y, the slope on the graph will tell you how to define.” Music and rhythm transports them someplace else. The right brain is working with the left brain and they’re stimulated, they’re no longer disengaged and they’re getting the meaning. It’s not Schoolhouse Rock. It’s very complex. And in addition to the arts education programs you create, you have big-name artists coming to teach master classes to students, right? We’ve had DMC of Run-DMC teaching spoken-word poetry; Ben Karlin, who was producer of “The Daily Show,” teaching comedy; Francine Prose teaching reading and writing; Michael Kenneth Williams from “The Wire”; Gaby Hoffmann; and Linus Roache, to name a few. David Cross taught a class in our animation program. Celebrities have given in other ways too. The Black Eyed Peas just gave us a lot of money because we were kind of falling behind financially, to the point where we were able to expand our offices, and Will.i.am helped us to build a bigger media lab program for our kids. People have always had this concept of New York City as the ultimate town for artists from across the creative spectrum who want to grow and learn and achieve success. And here we have a whole group of kids going without any arts programming whatsoever. What do you think is the problem? Lack of money. Although politicians say that it’s important and on their agenda, their actions — or rather, lack of action — speak louder than words. I’m sure they’re well intended, but if you don’t try to make policy happen in regards to arts and education, it’s not gonna happen. If you don’t put money behind it, it’s definitely not gonna happen. It irritates me when you hear politicians on the campaign trail saying we need school reform and they do nothing. What do you think about the current state of arts education in New York City? The current state of arts education in New York City is not that great, but it’s doing better than a lot of other states. A lot of that has to do with not-for-profits, and also the deputy mayor — who’s now the chancellor — has always been a champion for arts education. Bloomberg says he is as well, and he has given us grants, but it’s just a drop in the bucket, and the bucket is so wide. People in both the political and corporate world have been ramping up efforts to try to cut funding for federal and local arts organizations across the country. If you could make a plea to those people, what would you say? If you want more greedy, immoral people on Wall Street, keep cutting arts education. If you want the cycle of poverty to continue, keep cutting arts education. But if you want to break that chain on both ends of the spectrum, invest in arts education, because it allows people to grow and learn in a specific way and it also allows people to become more empathetic as human beings, and that’s what we need as well. And if you feel good about yourself, and more importantly, you feel good about the person standing next to you, it’s gonna be a better world. Point blank. People go, “Oh come on,” but really, it’s as simple as that. So let’s talk about the Prom on Wednesday? Who are you going to wear, and who’s your date? My man is my date, and I’m going to be dressed by Nanette Lepore. We are very excited to have her donate her time and her clothes, and I love it because I’m a woman with curves — know what I’m saying? Do you have any good memories from your own prom? I never went to my prom because I couldn’t afford it. And don’t cry for me, Argentina. I hate that. Let me make that point to you: when I get around these kids and I get emotional and I want to cry, I leave the room, because they hate it. They’re like, “Miss Perez, why do you always cry?” They don’t want anyone to feel sorry for them, all they want is opportunities. And they will rise to the occasion every time. Is there any chance you’ll lead a “Soul Train” line at the prom? [Laughs.] Oh my goodness, that’s hilarious. Probably not because I’m not in dancing shape, but now that you put it out there I bet that Rachel Dratch will start it off because she’s just hilarious. The Prom will take place Wednesday, June 8, at the Edison Ballroom. For information or tickets, go to urbanarts.org/events.