Source: https://ballotpedia.org/Ketanji_Brown_Jackson_confirmation_hearings_and_votes
Title: Ketanji Brown Jackson confirmation hearings and votes - Ballotpedia
Words: 22564

================================================================================

Your feedback ensures we stay focused on the facts that matter to you most—take our survey. Your feedback ensures we stay focused on the facts that matter to you most—take our survey. Your feedback ensures we stay focused on the facts that matter to you most—take our survey. Your feedback ensures we stay focused on the facts that matter to you most—take our survey. Ketanji Brown Jackson confirmation hearings and votes From Ballotpedia Jump to: navigation, search Justices CHIEF JUSTICE JOHN ROBERTS ASSOCIATE JUSTICES SAMUEL ALITO AMY CONEY BARRETT NEIL GORSUCH KETANJI BROWN JACKSON ELENA KAGAN BRETT KAVANAUGH SONIA SOTOMAYOR CLARENCE THOMAS CASES BY TERM Supreme Court cases, October term 2025-2026 Supreme Court cases, October term 2024-2025 Supreme Court cases, October term 2023-2024 Supreme Court cases, October term 2022-2023 Supreme Court cases, October term 2021-2022 Supreme Court cases, October term 2020-2021 Supreme Court cases, October term 2019-2020 Supreme Court cases, October term 2018-2019 Supreme Court cases, October term 2017-2018 Supreme Court cases, October term 2016-2017 Supreme Court cases, October term 2015-2016 All earlier cases HISTORY OF THE COURT Cases by chief justice Cases by decade Recent vacancies 2022 VACANCY AND JACKSON CONFIRMATION 2020 VACANCY AND BARRETT CONFIRMATION 2018 VACANCY AND KAVANAUGH CONFIRMATION 2017 VACANCY AND GORSUCH CONFIRMATION Contents 1 Confirmation overview 2 Senate confirmation vote 3 Senate Judiciary Committee vote 3.1 Senate vote on motion to discharge the nomination 4 Confirmation hearing: fourth day (3/24/22) 4.1 Majority witnesses 4.2 Minority witnesses 5 Confirmation hearing: third day (3/23/22) 6 Confirmation hearing: second day (3/22/22) 7 Confirmation hearing: first day (3/21/22) 7.1 Judiciary Committee member statements 7.2 Ketanji Brown Jackson opening statement 8 Past confirmation votes 9 Judiciary Committee questionnaire 10 See also 11 Footnotes Supreme Court vacancy, 2022 Nominee Ketanji Brown Jackson Former Justice Stephen Breyer Coverage Supreme Court vacancy, 2022 Ketanji Brown Jackson confirmation hearings Process to fill the vacated seat of Justice Stephen Breyer Resignation of Stephen Breyer from the U.S. Supreme Court Past vacancies:Select a vacancy:Supreme Court vacancy, 2020Supreme Court vacancy, 2018: An overviewSupreme Court vacancy, 2017: An overviewSubmit Ketanji Brown Jackson was sworn in to serve on the United States Supreme Court on June 30, 2022, the same day Stephen Breyer retired from the court.[1][2] President Joe Biden (D) announced he would nominate Jackson to fill Breyer's vacancy on the court on February 25.[3] Jackson was confirmed by the Senate in a 53-47 vote on April 7.[4] All 48 Senate Democrats voted to approve Jackson's confirmation, along with the two Independents who caucus with Democrats and Republican Sens. Susan Collins (R-Maine), Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska), and Mitt Romney (R-Utah). The 47 other Republicans in the chamber voted against the confirmation. All nominees to the court are subject to the advice and consent of the United States Senate. Judicial nominations from the president are referred to the Senate Judiciary Committee. At the time of Jackson's hearing, 22 senators sat on the committee, including 11 Republicans and 11 Democrats. The committee chairman was Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) and the ranking member was Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa). This page provides coverage related to Jackson's Senate confirmation. Confirmation overview The table below shows an overview of Jackson's Supreme Court confirmation process. Overview of confirmation process for Ketanji Brown Jackson Nominee Announced Nominated Senate Judiciary Committee hearings Senate Judiciary Committee vote Senate vote on motion to discharge[5] Senate vote Swearing-in Ketanji Brown Jackson February 25, 2022 February 28, 2022 March 21-24, 2022 No recommendation (11-11)April 4, 2022 Approved (53-47)April 4, 2022 Approved (53-47)April 7, 2022 June 30, 2022 Senate confirmation vote On April 7, the Senate voted 53-47 to confirm Jackson to the United States Supreme Court.[4] All 48 Democrats voted yea The two Independents who caucus with Democrats voted yea Sens. Susan Collins (R-Maine), Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska), and Mitt Romney (R-Utah) voted yea 47 Republicans voted nay Senate vote to confirm Ketanji Brown Jackson to the United States Supreme Court Senator Party State Vote Baldwin Democratic WI Yea Barrasso Republican WY Nay d Bennet Democratic CO Yea Blackburn Republican TN Nay d Blumenthal Democratic CT Yea Blunt Republican MO Nay d Booker Democratic NJ Yea Boozman Republican AR Nay d Braun Republican IN Nay d Brown Democratic OH Yea Burr Republican NC Nay d Cantwell Democratic WA Yea Capito Republican WV Nay d Cardin Democratic MD Yea Carper Democratic DE Yea Casey Democratic PA Yea Cassidy Republican LA Nay d Collins Republican ME Yea Coons Democratic DE Yea Cornyn Republican TX Nay d Cortez Masto Democratic NV Yea Cotton Republican AR Nay d Cramer Republican ND Nay d Crapo Republican ID Nay d Cruz Republican TX Nay d Daines Republican MT Nay d Duckworth Democratic IL Yea Durbin Democratic IL Yea Ernst Republican IA Nay d Feinstein Democratic CA Yea Fischer Republican NE Nay d Gillibrand Democratic NY Yea Graham Republican SC Nay d Grassley Republican IA Nay d Hagerty Republican TN Nay d Hassan Democratic NH Yea Hawley Republican MO Nay d Heinrich Democratic NM Yea Hickenlooper Democratic CO Yea Hirono Democratic HI Yea Hoeven Republican ND Nay d Hyde-Smith Republican MS Nay d Inhofe Republican OK Nay d Johnson Republican WI Nay d Kaine Democratic VA Yea Kelly Democratic AZ Yea Kennedy Republican LA Nay d King Independent ME Yea Klobuchar Democratic MN Yea Lankford Republican OK Nay d Leahy Democratic VT Yea Lee Republican UT Nay d Lujan Democratic NM Yea Lummis Republican WY Nay d Manchin Democratic WV Yea Markey Democratic MA Yea Marshall Republican KS Nay d McConnell Republican KY Nay d Menendez Democratic NJ Yea Merkley Democratic OR Yea Moran Republican KS Nay d Murkowski Republican AK Yea Murphy Democratic CT Yea Murray Democratic WA Yea Ossoff Democratic GA Yea Padilla Democratic CA Yea Paul Republican KY Nay d Peters Democratic MI Yea Portman Republican OH Nay d Reed Democratic RI Yea Risch Republican ID Nay d Romney Republican UT Yea Rosen Democratic NV Yea Rounds Republican SD Nay d Rubio Republican FL Nay d Sanders Independent VT Yea Sasse Republican NE Nay d Schatz Democratic HI Yea Schumer Democratic NY Yea Scott Republican FL Nay d Scott Republican SC Nay d Shaheen Democratic NH Yea Shelby Republican AL Nay d Sinema Democratic AZ Yea Smith Democratic MN Yea Stabenow Democratic MI Yea Sullivan Republican AK Nay d Tester Democratic MT Yea Thune Republican SD Nay d Tillis Republican NC Nay d Toomey Republican PA Nay d Tuberville Republican AL Nay d Van Hollen Democratic MD Yea Warner Democratic VA Yea Warnock Democratic GA Yea Warren Democratic MA Yea Whitehouse Democratic RI Yea Wicker Republican MS Nay d Wyden Democratic OR Yea Young Republican IN Nay d Senate Judiciary Committee vote The table below shows how members of the Senate Judiciary Committee voted regarding the advancement of Jackson's nomination. The vote was 11-11 along party lines. Jackson could advance with a tied vote under an organizing resolution passed at the start of the 117th Congress.[6] Senate Judiciary Committee vote to advance Ketanji Brown Jackson's nomination to the United States Supreme Court Senator Party State Vote Blackburn Republican TN Nay d Blumenthal Democratic CT Yea Booker Democratic NJ Yea Coons Democratic DE Yea Cornyn Republican TX Nay d Cotton Republican AR Nay d Cruz Republican TX Nay d Durbin Democratic IL Yea Feinstein Democratic CA Yea Graham Republican SC Nay d Grassley Republican IA Nay d Hawley Republican MO Nay d Hirono Democratic HI Yea Kennedy Republican LA Nay d Klobuchar Democratic MN Yea Leahy Democratic VT Yea Lee Republican UT Nay d Ossoff Democratic GA Yea Padilla Democratic CA Yea Sasse Republican NE Nay d Tillis Republican NC Nay d Whitehouse Democratic RI Yea Senate vote on motion to discharge the nomination Since Jackson's committee vote was tied, the full Senate needed to vote to advance the nomination. On April 4, the Senate voted 53-47 to approve the motion to discharge.[7] Senate vote to advance Ketanji Brown Jackson's nomination to the United States Supreme Court Senator Party State Vote Baldwin Democratic WI Yea Barrasso Republican WY Nay d Bennet Democratic CO Yea Blackburn Republican TN Nay d Blumenthal Democratic CT Yea Blunt Republican MO Nay d Booker Democratic NJ Yea Boozman Republican AR Nay d Braun Republican IN Nay d Brown Democratic OH Yea Burr Republican NC Nay d Cantwell Democratic WA Yea Capito Republican WV Nay d Cardin Democratic MD Yea Carper Democratic DE Yea Casey Democratic PA Yea Cassidy Republican LA Nay d Collins Republican ME Yea Coons Democratic DE Yea Cornyn Republican TX Nay d Cortez Masto Democratic NV Yea Cotton Republican AR Nay d Cramer Republican ND Nay d Crapo Republican ID Nay d Cruz Republican TX Nay d Daines Republican MT Nay d Duckworth Democratic IL Yea Durbin Democratic IL Yea Ernst Republican IA Nay d Feinstein Democratic CA Yea Fischer Republican NE Nay d Gillibrand Democratic NY Yea Graham Republican SC Nay d Grassley Republican IA Nay d Hagerty Republican TN Nay d Hassan Democratic NH Yea Hawley Republican MO Nay d Heinrich Democratic NM Yea Hickenlooper Democratic CO Yea Hirono Democratic HI Yea Hoeven Republican ND Nay d Hyde-Smith Republican MS Nay d Inhofe Republican OK Nay d Johnson Republican WI Nay d Kaine Democratic VA Yea Kelly Democratic AZ Yea Kennedy Republican LA Nay d King Independent ME Yea Klobuchar Democratic MN Yea Lankford Republican OK Nay d Leahy Democratic VT Yea Lee Republican UT Nay d Lujan Democratic NM Yea Lummis Republican WY Nay d Manchin Democratic WV Yea Markey Democratic MA Yea Marshall Republican KS Nay d McConnell Republican KY Nay d Menendez Democratic NJ Yea Merkley Democratic OR Yea Moran Republican KS Nay d Murkowski Republican AK Yea Murphy Democratic CT Yea Murray Democratic WA Yea Ossoff Democratic GA Yea Padilla Democratic CA Yea Paul Republican KY Nay d Peters Democratic MI Yea Portman Republican OH Nay d Reed Democratic RI Yea Risch Republican ID Nay d Romney Republican UT Yea Rosen Democratic NV Yea Rounds Republican SD Nay d Rubio Republican FL Nay d Sanders Independent VT Yea Sasse Republican NE Nay d Schatz Democratic HI Yea Schumer Democratic NY Yea Scott Republican FL Nay d Scott Republican SC Nay d Shaheen Democratic NH Yea Shelby Republican AL Nay d Sinema Democratic AZ Yea Smith Democratic MN Yea Stabenow Democratic MI Yea Sullivan Republican AK Nay d Tester Democratic MT Yea Thune Republican SD Nay d Tillis Republican NC Nay d Toomey Republican PA Nay d Tuberville Republican AL Nay d Van Hollen Democratic MD Yea Warner Democratic VA Yea Warnock Democratic GA Yea Warren Democratic MA Yea Whitehouse Democratic RI Yea Wicker Republican MS Nay d Wyden Democratic OR Yea Young Republican IN Nay d Confirmation hearing: fourth day (3/24/22) Witnesses supporting and opposing Jackson's confirmation spoke during the final day of hearings. Witnesses included the American Bar Association, five witnesses brought by Democrats, and five witnesses brought by Republicans. See below for a full list: American Bar Association Majority witnesses Rep. Joyce Beatty (D-Ohio) Risa Goluboff - Dean, Arnold H. Leon Professor of Law, and Professor of History at University of Virginia Wade Henderson - President & CEO, The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights Richard B. Rosenthal Frederick Thomas - National President, National Organization of Black Law Enforcement Executives (NOBLE) Minority witnesses Alabama Attorney General Steve Marshall Jennifer Mascott - Assistant Professor of Law & Co-Executive Director at the C. Boyden Gray Center for the Study of the Administrative State, Antonin Scalia Law School, George Mason University Eleanor McCullen Keisha Russell, First Liberty Alessandra Serano, Operation Underground Railroad Confirmation hearing: third day (3/23/22) The third day of Jackson's Senate confirmation hearings consisted of members of the judiciary committee questioning the judge, with each senator allotted 20 minutes. Topics in the questioning included Jackson's approach to sentencing, Jackson's recusal from Students for Fair Admissions, Inc. v. President & Fellows of Harvard, and the Supreme Court's use of emergency orders. Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) also announced the committee would vote on advancing Jackson's nomination on April 4.[8] The topics below were comprised from a number of analysis and summary articles. Jackson's approach to sentencing Sen. Thom Tillis (R-N.C.) asked Jackson about a specific opinion where she ruled against a coronavirus-related early release request. Tillis asked, "How can I not read this to say that perhaps they should be released irrespective of the crime for which they've been charged?" Jackson replied, saying "The question for courts, under the statute that Congress has enacted for compassionate release was whether COVID-19, a pandemic in the jail, was an extraordinary and compelling circumstance that should warrant release. What I said in that statement that you read was it would seem as though something like a deadly pandemic rampant in the jails would justify releasing everyone, but I go on to say in that very opinion Congress has indicated that we have to take each case individually, we have to look at the harm to the community that might be caused by the release of individual people."[9] Tillis later said, "If I take a look at your responses to some of my colleagues' questions and your statements to some of the defendants, it seems as though you're a very kind person and that there's at least a level of empathy that enters into your treatment of a defendant that some could view as maybe beyond what some of us would be comfortable with, with respect to administering justice." Jackson responded, saying "The statements that I made about my practices as a trial judge [.] were intended to explain how trial judges operate and how they impose sentences within the framework that Congress has provided. The statute that applies to us tells us to look at all the various factors that Congress has set forward, including the nature and circumstances of the offense, the history and characteristics of the defendant, and it tells us that we should be imposing a sentence sufficient but not greater than necessary to promote the purposes of punishment. Congress also tells us that one of the purposes of punishment is rehabilitation."[9][10] Jackson's recusal from Students for Fair Admissions, Inc. v. President & Fellows of Harvard Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) asked Jackson about Students for Fair Admissions, Inc. v. President & Fellows of Harvard, a case scheduled for argument before the Supreme Court during the court's October 2022-2023 term about Harvard University and the University of North Carolina admissions programs' use of race as a factor in admissions. Cruz asked, "You're on the board of overseers of Harvard. If you're confirmed, do you intend to recuse from this lawsuit?" Jackson said, "That is my plan."[11] Supreme Court's use of emergency orders Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) asked Jackson about the Supreme Court's use of unsigned orders, referencing an order the Court handed down that day overturning a redistricting decision from the Wisconsin Supreme Court. Klobuchar said, "Yesterday, you and I discussed the court's increasing reliance on issuing unsigned orders on its shadow docket. [.] While I'm not going to ask you about [the Supreme Court's order], because you couldn't possibly have read it, just your record of writing decisions that are thorough, and listening to litigants in cases. Could you just generally talk about the importance of having full briefings on the merits as well as public oral argument if you believe in transparency?"[12] Jackson responded, saying "The duty of a judge is to make determinations and under our system of adversarial proceedings you make determinations based on arguments and it's important to do so. I know, with respect to the emergency docket, you haven't asked me the question about it because I would say what I said before, which is I would benefit from being able to speak with the justices. I understand that there's a need to balance getting full briefing with emergency circumstances."[12] Confirmation hearing: second day (3/22/22) The second day of Jackson's Senate confirmation hearings consisted of members of the judiciary committee questioning the judge, with each senator allotted 30 minutes. Recurring themes in the questioning included abortion, Jackson's experience representing Guantanamo Bay detainees, LGBT issues, Jackson's sentencing record as a trial court judge, and Supreme Court expansion. The topics below were comprised from a number of analysis and summary articles. Abortion Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) asked, "Do you agree with Justice Kavanaugh that Roe v. Wade is settled as a precedent, and will you, like Justice Barrett, commit to obey all the rules of stare decisis in cases related to the issue of abortion?" Jackson replied, saying "I do agree with both Justice Kavanaugh and Justice Barrett on this issue. Roe and Casey are the settled law of the Supreme Court concerning the right to terminate a woman's pregnancy."[13] Feinstein went on to ask whether Roe was a super precedent, to which Jackson said "All Supreme Court cases are precedential, they're binding. And their principles and their rulings have to be followed. Roe and Casey, as you say, have been reaffirmed by the court, and have been relied upon, and reliance is one of the factors that the court considers when it seeks to revisit or is asked to revisit a precedent."[13] Sen. Marsha Blackburn (R-Tenn.) said, "The Supreme Court is reconsidering whether the constitution protects the right to an abortion in [Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization]. If you're confirmed, you will be in a position to apply the court's decision in Dobbs, whatever that decision is going to be, and you've talked about following precedent. Do you commit to respecting the court's decision if it rules that Roe was wrongly decided and that the issue of abortion should be sent back to the states?" Jackson replied, saying "Whatever the Supreme Court decides in Dobbs will be the precedent of the Supreme Court. It will be worthy of respect in the sense that it is the precedent, and I commit to treating it as I would any other precedent of the Supreme Court."[14] Jackson's experience representing Guantanamo Bay detainees Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas) and Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) both questioned Jackson regarding her experience representing Guantanamo Bay detainees. Specifically, the senators asked her about an amicus brief she filed before the Supreme Court on behalf clients including the Rutherford Institute, the Cato Institute, and The Constitution Project. Graham asked, "Do you believe that [.] America was acting as war criminals in holding these detainees?" Jackson said, "What I was doing in the context of the habeas petitions at this very early stage in the process was making allegations to preserve issues on behalf of my clients."[15] Sen. Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) asked about Jackson's defense of Guantanamo Bay detainees while working as a public defender. He asked, "What principles drove you to get involved with cases in such a difficult time with Guantanamo Bay?"[15] Jackson said she was assigned to the cases and, in response to a similar question from Sen. Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), that "After 9/11, there were also lawyers who recognized that our nation's values were under attack, that we couldn't let the terrorists win by changing who we were fundamentally. And what that meant was that the people who were being accused by our government of having engaged in actions related to this, under our Constitutional scheme, were entitled to representation."[16] LGBT issues Cornyn asked Jackson about Supreme Court rulings on same-sex marriage, saying "When the Supreme Court decides that something that is not even in the Constitution is a fundamental right and no state can pass any law that conflicts with the Supreme Court's edict, particularly in an area where people have sincerely held religious beliefs, doesn't that necessarily create a conflict between what people may believe as a matter of their religious doctrine or faith and what the federal government says is the law of the land?" Jackson responded, saying "That is the nature of a right. That when there is a right it means that there are limitations on regulation, even if people are regulating pursuant to their sincerely held religious beliefs."[17] Blackburn asked Jackson about transgender people participating in sports. Blackburn said, "Just last week an entire generation of young girls watched as our taxpayer-funded institutions permitted a biological man to compete and beat a biological woman in the NCAA swimming championships. What message do you think this sends to girls who aspire to compete and win in sports at the highest levels?" Jackson said, "I'm not sure what message that sends. If you're asking me about the legal issues related to it, those are topics that are being hotly discussed, as you say, and could come to the court."[18] Jackson's sentencing record as a trial court judge Several Republican senators, including Sens. Tom Cotton (R-Ark.), Ted Cruz (R-Texas), Josh Hawley (R-Mo.), and Mike Lee (R-Utah), questioned Jackson regarding past prison sentences she issued as a trial court judge in cases involving child pornography that were less than the federal sentencing guidelines' recommended ranges.[19] After describing the details of a specific case, Hawley said "The guidelines called for ten years, the prosecutor wanted at least two, you gave him three months." He then quoted from Jackson's ruling where she said "I don't feel that it's appropriate to increase the penalty on the basis of the number of images or pre-pubescent victims as the guidelines require because these circumstances exist in many cases, if not most, and don't signal an especially heinous or egregious child pornography offense." Hawley asked, "If its not heinous or egregious, how would you describe it?"[20] Jackson replied, saying "It is heinous. It is egregious. What a judge has to do is determine how to sentence defendants proportionately, consistent with the elements that the statutes include, [and] with the requirements that Congress has set forward. [.] The guidelines, as you pointed out, are being departed from even with respect to the government's recommendation. The government, in this case and in others, has asked for a sentence that is substantially less than the guideline penalty. So what I was discussing was that phenomenon." Jackson also said that sentences in these cases involve elements in addition to prison time, like restraints on computer use and proximity to children.[20] Supreme Court expansion Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) asked Jackson about her stance on adding additional members to the Supreme Court. He asked, "Do you agree with Justice Breyer and Justice Ginsburg that court-packing is a bad idea?" Jackson responded, saying "It is a policy question for Congress and I am particularly mindful of not speaking to policy issues because I am so committed to staying in my lane of the system. Because I am just not willing to speak to issues that are properly in the province of this body."[21] Confirmation hearing: first day (3/21/22) The first day of Jackson's Senate confirmation hearings began at 11:00 a.m. EST. Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) and ranking member Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) provided opening statements, followed by members of the Senate Judiciary Committee. Thomas Griffith, a former George W. Bush (R) appointee to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, and Lisa Fairfax, a professor of law at the University of Pennsylvania, offered introductory remarks. After the introductions, the day ended with Jackson's opening statement. Judiciary Committee member statements Click the links below to access the opening statements made by the members of the Senate Judiciary Committee. Statements were obtained from senators' websites and the media. Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) John Cornyn (R-Texas) Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.) Mike Lee (R-Utah) Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) Ted Cruz (R-Texas) Christopher Coons (D-Del.) Ben Sasse (R-Neb.) Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) Josh Hawley (R-Mo.) Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii) Tom Cotton (R-Ark.) Cory Booker (D-N.J.) John Kennedy (R-La.) Alex Padilla (D-Calif.) Thom Tillis (R-N.C.) Jon Ossoff (D-Ga.) Marsha Blackburn (R-Tenn.) Ketanji Brown Jackson opening statement The video below shows Jackson's opening statement. Click here for a transcript of her speech. "U.S. Supreme Court Nominee Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson Opening Statement" March 21, 2022 Past confirmation votes Before Jackson's nomination to the Supreme Court, she had received three confirmation votes in the Senate for other positions. Her confirmations to the U.S. Sentencing Commission in 2010 and to the United States District Court for the District of Columbia in 2013 were approved by voice vote.[22][23] In 2021, Biden appointed Jackson to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. The Senate confirmed her in a 53-44 vote.[24] Expand the table below to see the roll call vote. Senate vote to confirm Ketanji Brown Jackson to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit (January 19, 2022) Senator Party State Vote Baldwin Democratic WI Yea Barrasso Republican WY Nay d Bennet Democratic CO Yea Blackburn Republican TN Nay d Blumenthal Democratic CT Yea Blunt Republican MO Not Voting Booker Democratic NJ Yea Boozman Republican AR Nay d Braun Republican IN Nay d Brown Democratic OH Yea Burr Republican NC Nay d Cantwell Democratic WA Yea Capito Republican WV Nay d Cardin Democratic MD Yea Carper Democratic DE Yea Casey Democratic PA Yea Cassidy Republican LA Nay d Collins Republican ME Yea Coons Democratic DE Yea Cornyn Republican TX Nay d Cortez Masto Democratic NV Yea Cotton Republican AR Nay d Cramer Republican ND Nay d Crapo Republican ID Nay d Cruz Republican TX Nay d Daines Republican MT Nay d Duckworth Democratic IL Yea Durbin Democratic IL Yea Ernst Republican IA Nay d Feinstein Democratic CA Yea Fischer Republican NE Nay d Gillibrand Democratic NY Yea Graham Republican SC Yea Grassley Republican IA Nay d Hagerty Republican TN Nay d Hassan Democratic NH Yea Hawley Republican MO Nay d Heinrich Democratic NM Yea Hickenlooper Democratic CO Yea Hirono Democratic HI Yea Hoeven Republican ND Nay d Hyde-Smith Republican MS Nay d Inhofe Republican OK Nay d Johnson Republican WI Nay d Kaine Democratic VA Yea Kelly Democratic AZ Yea Kennedy Republican LA Nay d King Independent ME Yea Klobuchar Democratic MN Yea Lankford Republican OK Nay d Leahy Democratic VT Yea Lee Republican UT Nay d Lujan Democratic NM Yea Lummis Republican WY Nay d Manchin Democratic WV Yea Markey Democratic MA Yea Marshall Republican KS Nay d McConnell Republican KY Nay d Menendez Democratic NJ Yea Merkley Democratic OR Yea Moran Republican KS Nay d Murkowski Republican AK Yea Murphy Democratic CT Yea Murray Democratic WA Yea Ossoff Democratic GA Yea Padilla Democratic CA Yea Paul Republican KY Nay d Peters Democratic MI Yea Portman Republican OH Nay d Reed Democratic RI Yea Risch Republican ID Nay d Romney Republican UT Nay d Rosen Democratic NV Yea Rounds Republican SD Nay d Rubio Republican FL Not Voting Sanders Independent VT Yea Sasse Republican NE Not Voting Schatz Democratic HI Yea Schumer Democratic NY Yea Scott Republican FL Nay d Scott Republican SC Nay d Shaheen Democratic NH Yea Shelby Republican AL Nay d Sinema Democratic AZ Yea Smith Democratic MN Yea Stabenow Democratic MI Yea Sullivan Republican AK Nay d Tester Democratic MT Yea Thune Republican SD Nay d Tillis Republican NC Nay d Toomey Republican PA Nay d Tuberville Republican AL Nay d Van Hollen Democratic MD Yea Warner Democratic VA Yea Warnock Democratic GA Yea Warren Democratic MA Yea Whitehouse Democratic RI Yea Wicker Republican MS Nay d Wyden Democratic OR Yea Young Republican IN Nay d Judiciary Committee questionnaire The Senate Judiciary Committee released Jackson's nominee questionnaire on March 1, 2022.[25] See also Supreme Court vacancy, 2022 Process to fill the vacated seat of Justice Stephen Breyer Amy Coney Barrett confirmation hearings Brett Kavanaugh confirmation hearings Neil Gorsuch confirmation hearings Supreme Court of the United States Footnotes ↑ The Hill, "Justice Breyer set to retire from Supreme Court on Thursday," June 29, 2022 ↑ The Washington Post, "Jackson to take Supreme Court oath Thurs., minutes after Breyer retires," June 29, 2022 ↑ White House, "President Biden Nominates Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson to Serve as Associate Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court," February 25, 2022 ↑ 4.0 4.1 Congress.gov, "PN1783 — Ketanji Brown Jackson — Supreme Court of the United States," accessed April 7, 2022 ↑ Since Jackson received a tied vote in committee, the full Senate voted on whether to advance her nomination to a confirmation vote. ↑ SCOTUSblog, "Jackson’s nomination hearings will begin March 21. Here’s what to expect.," March 3, 2022 ↑ Congress.gov, "PN1783 — Ketanji Brown Jackson — Supreme Court of the United States," accessed April 5, 2022 ↑ The Hill, "Senate panel to hold Supreme Court vote April 4," March 23, 2022 ↑ 9.0 9.1 YouTube, "WATCH: Sen. Thom Tillis argues against court packing in Supreme Court confirmation hearings," March 23, 2022 ↑ SCOTUSblog, "The Jackson hearings: Key moments from Day 3," March 24, 2022 ↑ YouTube, "WATCH: Jackson says she would recuse herself from Harvard case before Supreme Court," March 23, 2022 ↑ 12.0 12.1 YouTube, "WATCH: Sen. Klobuchar questions Jackson in Supreme Court confirmation hearings," March 23, 2022 ↑ 13.0 13.1 ABC News, "Jackson on abortion cases: 'Roe and Casey are the settled law'," March 22, 2022 ↑ YouTube, "WATCH: Sen. Marsha Blackburn presses Ketanji Brown Jackson about Roe v. Wade," March 22, 2022 ↑ 15.0 15.1 PBS News Hour, "WATCH: Supreme Court nominee Ketanji Brown Jackson defends work as an attorney for Guantanamo Bay prisoners," March 22, 2022 ↑ ABC News, "Jackson discusses representing Gitmo detainees," March 22, 2022 ↑ ABC News, "Cornyn questions Jackson on same-sex marriage," March 22, 2022 ↑ Politico, "Blackburn to Jackson: Can you define ‘the word woman’?" March 22, 2022 ↑ SCOTUSblog, "On second day of hearings, Jackson responds to Republican critiques on criminal sentencing," March 23, 2022 ↑ 20.0 20.1 YouTube, "WATCH: Sen. Josh Hawley questions Jackson in Supreme Court confirmation hearings," March 22, 2022 ↑ YouTube, "WATCH: Sen. Chuck Grassley questions Jackson in Supreme Court confirmation hearings," March 22, 2022 ↑ Congress.gov, "PN18 — Ketanji Brown Jackson — The Judiciary," accessed March 16, 2022 ↑ Congress.gov, "PN802 — Ketanji Brown Jackson — United States Sentencing Commission," accessed March 16, 2022 ↑ Congress.gov, "PN391 — Ketanji Brown Jackson — The Judiciary," accessed March 16, 2022 ↑ CNN, "New Senate questionnaire details Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson's White House contacts during nomination process," March 1, 2022 BallotpediaAboutOverview • What people are saying • Support Ballotpedia • Contact • Contribute • Job opportunitiesExecutive: Leslie Graves, Founder and CEO • Gwen Beattie, Chief Operating Officer Communications: Alison Graves, Director of Communications • Carley Allensworth • Abigail Campbell • Frank Festa • Sarah Groat • Nathaniel Harwood • Dillon Redmond • Erica Shumaker External Relations: Geoff Pallay, Director of External Relations • Ken Carbullido, Vice President of Election Product and Technology Strategy • Ashley Fleming • Thomas Mardik • Hannah Nelson Operations: Meghann Olshefski, Director of Operations • Amanda Herbert • Mandy Morris • Caroline Presnell • Kelly Rindfleisch Tech: Matt Latourelle, Director of Technology Operations • Ryan Burch • Kirsten Corrao • Beth Dellea • Travis Eden • Tate Kamish • Margaret Kearney • Eric Lotto • Joseph Sanchez • Mary Susmitha Contributors: Scott Rasmussen Editorial ContentJosh Altic, Director of Content • Daniel Anderson, Associate Director of Elections & Data • Cory Eucalitto, Associate Director of Features • Ryan Byrne, Managing Editor of Ballot Measures • Mandy McConnell, Managing Editor of News • Doug Kronaizl, Managing Editor of Local Expansion • Abbey Smith, Managing Editor of Elections • Janie Valentine, Managing Editor of Law • Joel Williams. Managing Editor of Events • Andrew Bahl • Jaclyn Beran • Marielle Bricker • Joseph Brusgard • Emma Burlingame • Kelly Coyle • Jon Dunn • Thomas Ellis • Nicole Fisher • Joseph Greaney • Thomas Grobben • Brianna Hosea • Molly Kehoe • Tyler King • Glorie Martinez • Norm Leahy, Senior Editor • Nathan Maxwell • Jimmy McAllister • Brandon McCauley • Ellie Mikus • Ellen Morrissey • Mackenzie Murphy • Kaley Platek • Samantha Post • Adam Powell • Annelise Reinwald • Ethan Rice • Spencer Richardson • Victoria Rose • Briana Ryan • Myj Saintyl • Maddy Salucka • Emma Soukup • Alexis Thacker • Mina Vogel • Samuel Wonacott • Trenton Woodcox Retrieved from "https://ballotpedia.org/wiki/index.php?title=Ketanji_Brown_Jackson_confirmation_hearings_and_votes&oldid=10278966" Category: SCOTUS vacancy: Confirmation hearings From Ballotpedia Jump to: navigation, search Justices CHIEF JUSTICE JOHN ROBERTS ASSOCIATE JUSTICES SAMUEL ALITO AMY CONEY BARRETT NEIL GORSUCH KETANJI BROWN JACKSON ELENA KAGAN BRETT KAVANAUGH SONIA SOTOMAYOR CLARENCE THOMAS CASES BY TERM Supreme Court cases, October term 2025-2026 Supreme Court cases, October term 2024-2025 Supreme Court cases, October term 2023-2024 Supreme Court cases, October term 2022-2023 Supreme Court cases, October term 2021-2022 Supreme Court cases, October term 2020-2021 Supreme Court cases, October term 2019-2020 Supreme Court cases, October term 2018-2019 Supreme Court cases, October term 2017-2018 Supreme Court cases, October term 2016-2017 Supreme Court cases, October term 2015-2016 All earlier cases HISTORY OF THE COURT Cases by chief justice Cases by decade Recent vacancies 2022 VACANCY AND JACKSON CONFIRMATION 2020 VACANCY AND BARRETT CONFIRMATION 2018 VACANCY AND KAVANAUGH CONFIRMATION 2017 VACANCY AND GORSUCH CONFIRMATION Contents 1 Confirmation overview 2 Senate confirmation vote 3 Senate Judiciary Committee vote 3.1 Senate vote on motion to discharge the nomination 4 Confirmation hearing: fourth day (3/24/22) 4.1 Majority witnesses 4.2 Minority witnesses 5 Confirmation hearing: third day (3/23/22) 6 Confirmation hearing: second day (3/22/22) 7 Confirmation hearing: first day (3/21/22) 7.1 Judiciary Committee member statements 7.2 Ketanji Brown Jackson opening statement 8 Past confirmation votes 9 Judiciary Committee questionnaire 10 See also 11 Footnotes Supreme Court vacancy, 2022 Nominee Ketanji Brown Jackson Former Justice Stephen Breyer Coverage Supreme Court vacancy, 2022 Ketanji Brown Jackson confirmation hearings Process to fill the vacated seat of Justice Stephen Breyer Resignation of Stephen Breyer from the U.S. Supreme Court Past vacancies:Select a vacancy:Supreme Court vacancy, 2020Supreme Court vacancy, 2018: An overviewSupreme Court vacancy, 2017: An overviewSubmit Ketanji Brown Jackson was sworn in to serve on the United States Supreme Court on June 30, 2022, the same day Stephen Breyer retired from the court.[1][2] President Joe Biden (D) announced he would nominate Jackson to fill Breyer's vacancy on the court on February 25.[3] Jackson was confirmed by the Senate in a 53-47 vote on April 7.[4] All 48 Senate Democrats voted to approve Jackson's confirmation, along with the two Independents who caucus with Democrats and Republican Sens. Susan Collins (R-Maine), Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska), and Mitt Romney (R-Utah). The 47 other Republicans in the chamber voted against the confirmation. All nominees to the court are subject to the advice and consent of the United States Senate. Judicial nominations from the president are referred to the Senate Judiciary Committee. At the time of Jackson's hearing, 22 senators sat on the committee, including 11 Republicans and 11 Democrats. The committee chairman was Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) and the ranking member was Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa). This page provides coverage related to Jackson's Senate confirmation. Confirmation overview The table below shows an overview of Jackson's Supreme Court confirmation process. Overview of confirmation process for Ketanji Brown Jackson Nominee Announced Nominated Senate Judiciary Committee hearings Senate Judiciary Committee vote Senate vote on motion to discharge[5] Senate vote Swearing-in Ketanji Brown Jackson February 25, 2022 February 28, 2022 March 21-24, 2022 No recommendation (11-11)April 4, 2022 Approved (53-47)April 4, 2022 Approved (53-47)April 7, 2022 June 30, 2022 Senate confirmation vote On April 7, the Senate voted 53-47 to confirm Jackson to the United States Supreme Court.[4] All 48 Democrats voted yea The two Independents who caucus with Democrats voted yea Sens. Susan Collins (R-Maine), Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska), and Mitt Romney (R-Utah) voted yea 47 Republicans voted nay Senate vote to confirm Ketanji Brown Jackson to the United States Supreme Court Senator Party State Vote Baldwin Democratic WI Yea Barrasso Republican WY Nay d Bennet Democratic CO Yea Blackburn Republican TN Nay d Blumenthal Democratic CT Yea Blunt Republican MO Nay d Booker Democratic NJ Yea Boozman Republican AR Nay d Braun Republican IN Nay d Brown Democratic OH Yea Burr Republican NC Nay d Cantwell Democratic WA Yea Capito Republican WV Nay d Cardin Democratic MD Yea Carper Democratic DE Yea Casey Democratic PA Yea Cassidy Republican LA Nay d Collins Republican ME Yea Coons Democratic DE Yea Cornyn Republican TX Nay d Cortez Masto Democratic NV Yea Cotton Republican AR Nay d Cramer Republican ND Nay d Crapo Republican ID Nay d Cruz Republican TX Nay d Daines Republican MT Nay d Duckworth Democratic IL Yea Durbin Democratic IL Yea Ernst Republican IA Nay d Feinstein Democratic CA Yea Fischer Republican NE Nay d Gillibrand Democratic NY Yea Graham Republican SC Nay d Grassley Republican IA Nay d Hagerty Republican TN Nay d Hassan Democratic NH Yea Hawley Republican MO Nay d Heinrich Democratic NM Yea Hickenlooper Democratic CO Yea Hirono Democratic HI Yea Hoeven Republican ND Nay d Hyde-Smith Republican MS Nay d Inhofe Republican OK Nay d Johnson Republican WI Nay d Kaine Democratic VA Yea Kelly Democratic AZ Yea Kennedy Republican LA Nay d King Independent ME Yea Klobuchar Democratic MN Yea Lankford Republican OK Nay d Leahy Democratic VT Yea Lee Republican UT Nay d Lujan Democratic NM Yea Lummis Republican WY Nay d Manchin Democratic WV Yea Markey Democratic MA Yea Marshall Republican KS Nay d McConnell Republican KY Nay d Menendez Democratic NJ Yea Merkley Democratic OR Yea Moran Republican KS Nay d Murkowski Republican AK Yea Murphy Democratic CT Yea Murray Democratic WA Yea Ossoff Democratic GA Yea Padilla Democratic CA Yea Paul Republican KY Nay d Peters Democratic MI Yea Portman Republican OH Nay d Reed Democratic RI Yea Risch Republican ID Nay d Romney Republican UT Yea Rosen Democratic NV Yea Rounds Republican SD Nay d Rubio Republican FL Nay d Sanders Independent VT Yea Sasse Republican NE Nay d Schatz Democratic HI Yea Schumer Democratic NY Yea Scott Republican FL Nay d Scott Republican SC Nay d Shaheen Democratic NH Yea Shelby Republican AL Nay d Sinema Democratic AZ Yea Smith Democratic MN Yea Stabenow Democratic MI Yea Sullivan Republican AK Nay d Tester Democratic MT Yea Thune Republican SD Nay d Tillis Republican NC Nay d Toomey Republican PA Nay d Tuberville Republican AL Nay d Van Hollen Democratic MD Yea Warner Democratic VA Yea Warnock Democratic GA Yea Warren Democratic MA Yea Whitehouse Democratic RI Yea Wicker Republican MS Nay d Wyden Democratic OR Yea Young Republican IN Nay d Senate Judiciary Committee vote The table below shows how members of the Senate Judiciary Committee voted regarding the advancement of Jackson's nomination. The vote was 11-11 along party lines. Jackson could advance with a tied vote under an organizing resolution passed at the start of the 117th Congress.[6] Senate Judiciary Committee vote to advance Ketanji Brown Jackson's nomination to the United States Supreme Court Senator Party State Vote Blackburn Republican TN Nay d Blumenthal Democratic CT Yea Booker Democratic NJ Yea Coons Democratic DE Yea Cornyn Republican TX Nay d Cotton Republican AR Nay d Cruz Republican TX Nay d Durbin Democratic IL Yea Feinstein Democratic CA Yea Graham Republican SC Nay d Grassley Republican IA Nay d Hawley Republican MO Nay d Hirono Democratic HI Yea Kennedy Republican LA Nay d Klobuchar Democratic MN Yea Leahy Democratic VT Yea Lee Republican UT Nay d Ossoff Democratic GA Yea Padilla Democratic CA Yea Sasse Republican NE Nay d Tillis Republican NC Nay d Whitehouse Democratic RI Yea Senate vote on motion to discharge the nomination Since Jackson's committee vote was tied, the full Senate needed to vote to advance the nomination. On April 4, the Senate voted 53-47 to approve the motion to discharge.[7] Senate vote to advance Ketanji Brown Jackson's nomination to the United States Supreme Court Senator Party State Vote Baldwin Democratic WI Yea Barrasso Republican WY Nay d Bennet Democratic CO Yea Blackburn Republican TN Nay d Blumenthal Democratic CT Yea Blunt Republican MO Nay d Booker Democratic NJ Yea Boozman Republican AR Nay d Braun Republican IN Nay d Brown Democratic OH Yea Burr Republican NC Nay d Cantwell Democratic WA Yea Capito Republican WV Nay d Cardin Democratic MD Yea Carper Democratic DE Yea Casey Democratic PA Yea Cassidy Republican LA Nay d Collins Republican ME Yea Coons Democratic DE Yea Cornyn Republican TX Nay d Cortez Masto Democratic NV Yea Cotton Republican AR Nay d Cramer Republican ND Nay d Crapo Republican ID Nay d Cruz Republican TX Nay d Daines Republican MT Nay d Duckworth Democratic IL Yea Durbin Democratic IL Yea Ernst Republican IA Nay d Feinstein Democratic CA Yea Fischer Republican NE Nay d Gillibrand Democratic NY Yea Graham Republican SC Nay d Grassley Republican IA Nay d Hagerty Republican TN Nay d Hassan Democratic NH Yea Hawley Republican MO Nay d Heinrich Democratic NM Yea Hickenlooper Democratic CO Yea Hirono Democratic HI Yea Hoeven Republican ND Nay d Hyde-Smith Republican MS Nay d Inhofe Republican OK Nay d Johnson Republican WI Nay d Kaine Democratic VA Yea Kelly Democratic AZ Yea Kennedy Republican LA Nay d King Independent ME Yea Klobuchar Democratic MN Yea Lankford Republican OK Nay d Leahy Democratic VT Yea Lee Republican UT Nay d Lujan Democratic NM Yea Lummis Republican WY Nay d Manchin Democratic WV Yea Markey Democratic MA Yea Marshall Republican KS Nay d McConnell Republican KY Nay d Menendez Democratic NJ Yea Merkley Democratic OR Yea Moran Republican KS Nay d Murkowski Republican AK Yea Murphy Democratic CT Yea Murray Democratic WA Yea Ossoff Democratic GA Yea Padilla Democratic CA Yea Paul Republican KY Nay d Peters Democratic MI Yea Portman Republican OH Nay d Reed Democratic RI Yea Risch Republican ID Nay d Romney Republican UT Yea Rosen Democratic NV Yea Rounds Republican SD Nay d Rubio Republican FL Nay d Sanders Independent VT Yea Sasse Republican NE Nay d Schatz Democratic HI Yea Schumer Democratic NY Yea Scott Republican FL Nay d Scott Republican SC Nay d Shaheen Democratic NH Yea Shelby Republican AL Nay d Sinema Democratic AZ Yea Smith Democratic MN Yea Stabenow Democratic MI Yea Sullivan Republican AK Nay d Tester Democratic MT Yea Thune Republican SD Nay d Tillis Republican NC Nay d Toomey Republican PA Nay d Tuberville Republican AL Nay d Van Hollen Democratic MD Yea Warner Democratic VA Yea Warnock Democratic GA Yea Warren Democratic MA Yea Whitehouse Democratic RI Yea Wicker Republican MS Nay d Wyden Democratic OR Yea Young Republican IN Nay d Confirmation hearing: fourth day (3/24/22) Witnesses supporting and opposing Jackson's confirmation spoke during the final day of hearings. Witnesses included the American Bar Association, five witnesses brought by Democrats, and five witnesses brought by Republicans. See below for a full list: American Bar Association Majority witnesses Rep. Joyce Beatty (D-Ohio) Risa Goluboff - Dean, Arnold H. Leon Professor of Law, and Professor of History at University of Virginia Wade Henderson - President & CEO, The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights Richard B. Rosenthal Frederick Thomas - National President, National Organization of Black Law Enforcement Executives (NOBLE) Minority witnesses Alabama Attorney General Steve Marshall Jennifer Mascott - Assistant Professor of Law & Co-Executive Director at the C. Boyden Gray Center for the Study of the Administrative State, Antonin Scalia Law School, George Mason University Eleanor McCullen Keisha Russell, First Liberty Alessandra Serano, Operation Underground Railroad Confirmation hearing: third day (3/23/22) The third day of Jackson's Senate confirmation hearings consisted of members of the judiciary committee questioning the judge, with each senator allotted 20 minutes. Topics in the questioning included Jackson's approach to sentencing, Jackson's recusal from Students for Fair Admissions, Inc. v. President & Fellows of Harvard, and the Supreme Court's use of emergency orders. Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) also announced the committee would vote on advancing Jackson's nomination on April 4.[8] The topics below were comprised from a number of analysis and summary articles. Jackson's approach to sentencing Sen. Thom Tillis (R-N.C.) asked Jackson about a specific opinion where she ruled against a coronavirus-related early release request. Tillis asked, "How can I not read this to say that perhaps they should be released irrespective of the crime for which they've been charged?" Jackson replied, saying "The question for courts, under the statute that Congress has enacted for compassionate release was whether COVID-19, a pandemic in the jail, was an extraordinary and compelling circumstance that should warrant release. What I said in that statement that you read was it would seem as though something like a deadly pandemic rampant in the jails would justify releasing everyone, but I go on to say in that very opinion Congress has indicated that we have to take each case individually, we have to look at the harm to the community that might be caused by the release of individual people."[9] Tillis later said, "If I take a look at your responses to some of my colleagues' questions and your statements to some of the defendants, it seems as though you're a very kind person and that there's at least a level of empathy that enters into your treatment of a defendant that some could view as maybe beyond what some of us would be comfortable with, with respect to administering justice." Jackson responded, saying "The statements that I made about my practices as a trial judge [.] were intended to explain how trial judges operate and how they impose sentences within the framework that Congress has provided. The statute that applies to us tells us to look at all the various factors that Congress has set forward, including the nature and circumstances of the offense, the history and characteristics of the defendant, and it tells us that we should be imposing a sentence sufficient but not greater than necessary to promote the purposes of punishment. Congress also tells us that one of the purposes of punishment is rehabilitation."[9][10] Jackson's recusal from Students for Fair Admissions, Inc. v. President & Fellows of Harvard Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) asked Jackson about Students for Fair Admissions, Inc. v. President & Fellows of Harvard, a case scheduled for argument before the Supreme Court during the court's October 2022-2023 term about Harvard University and the University of North Carolina admissions programs' use of race as a factor in admissions. Cruz asked, "You're on the board of overseers of Harvard. If you're confirmed, do you intend to recuse from this lawsuit?" Jackson said, "That is my plan."[11] Supreme Court's use of emergency orders Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) asked Jackson about the Supreme Court's use of unsigned orders, referencing an order the Court handed down that day overturning a redistricting decision from the Wisconsin Supreme Court. Klobuchar said, "Yesterday, you and I discussed the court's increasing reliance on issuing unsigned orders on its shadow docket. [.] While I'm not going to ask you about [the Supreme Court's order], because you couldn't possibly have read it, just your record of writing decisions that are thorough, and listening to litigants in cases. Could you just generally talk about the importance of having full briefings on the merits as well as public oral argument if you believe in transparency?"[12] Jackson responded, saying "The duty of a judge is to make determinations and under our system of adversarial proceedings you make determinations based on arguments and it's important to do so. I know, with respect to the emergency docket, you haven't asked me the question about it because I would say what I said before, which is I would benefit from being able to speak with the justices. I understand that there's a need to balance getting full briefing with emergency circumstances."[12] Confirmation hearing: second day (3/22/22) The second day of Jackson's Senate confirmation hearings consisted of members of the judiciary committee questioning the judge, with each senator allotted 30 minutes. Recurring themes in the questioning included abortion, Jackson's experience representing Guantanamo Bay detainees, LGBT issues, Jackson's sentencing record as a trial court judge, and Supreme Court expansion. The topics below were comprised from a number of analysis and summary articles. Abortion Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) asked, "Do you agree with Justice Kavanaugh that Roe v. Wade is settled as a precedent, and will you, like Justice Barrett, commit to obey all the rules of stare decisis in cases related to the issue of abortion?" Jackson replied, saying "I do agree with both Justice Kavanaugh and Justice Barrett on this issue. Roe and Casey are the settled law of the Supreme Court concerning the right to terminate a woman's pregnancy."[13] Feinstein went on to ask whether Roe was a super precedent, to which Jackson said "All Supreme Court cases are precedential, they're binding. And their principles and their rulings have to be followed. Roe and Casey, as you say, have been reaffirmed by the court, and have been relied upon, and reliance is one of the factors that the court considers when it seeks to revisit or is asked to revisit a precedent."[13] Sen. Marsha Blackburn (R-Tenn.) said, "The Supreme Court is reconsidering whether the constitution protects the right to an abortion in [Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization]. If you're confirmed, you will be in a position to apply the court's decision in Dobbs, whatever that decision is going to be, and you've talked about following precedent. Do you commit to respecting the court's decision if it rules that Roe was wrongly decided and that the issue of abortion should be sent back to the states?" Jackson replied, saying "Whatever the Supreme Court decides in Dobbs will be the precedent of the Supreme Court. It will be worthy of respect in the sense that it is the precedent, and I commit to treating it as I would any other precedent of the Supreme Court."[14] Jackson's experience representing Guantanamo Bay detainees Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas) and Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) both questioned Jackson regarding her experience representing Guantanamo Bay detainees. Specifically, the senators asked her about an amicus brief she filed before the Supreme Court on behalf clients including the Rutherford Institute, the Cato Institute, and The Constitution Project. Graham asked, "Do you believe that [.] America was acting as war criminals in holding these detainees?" Jackson said, "What I was doing in the context of the habeas petitions at this very early stage in the process was making allegations to preserve issues on behalf of my clients."[15] Sen. Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) asked about Jackson's defense of Guantanamo Bay detainees while working as a public defender. He asked, "What principles drove you to get involved with cases in such a difficult time with Guantanamo Bay?"[15] Jackson said she was assigned to the cases and, in response to a similar question from Sen. Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), that "After 9/11, there were also lawyers who recognized that our nation's values were under attack, that we couldn't let the terrorists win by changing who we were fundamentally. And what that meant was that the people who were being accused by our government of having engaged in actions related to this, under our Constitutional scheme, were entitled to representation."[16] LGBT issues Cornyn asked Jackson about Supreme Court rulings on same-sex marriage, saying "When the Supreme Court decides that something that is not even in the Constitution is a fundamental right and no state can pass any law that conflicts with the Supreme Court's edict, particularly in an area where people have sincerely held religious beliefs, doesn't that necessarily create a conflict between what people may believe as a matter of their religious doctrine or faith and what the federal government says is the law of the land?" Jackson responded, saying "That is the nature of a right. That when there is a right it means that there are limitations on regulation, even if people are regulating pursuant to their sincerely held religious beliefs."[17] Blackburn asked Jackson about transgender people participating in sports. Blackburn said, "Just last week an entire generation of young girls watched as our taxpayer-funded institutions permitted a biological man to compete and beat a biological woman in the NCAA swimming championships. What message do you think this sends to girls who aspire to compete and win in sports at the highest levels?" Jackson said, "I'm not sure what message that sends. If you're asking me about the legal issues related to it, those are topics that are being hotly discussed, as you say, and could come to the court."[18] Jackson's sentencing record as a trial court judge Several Republican senators, including Sens. Tom Cotton (R-Ark.), Ted Cruz (R-Texas), Josh Hawley (R-Mo.), and Mike Lee (R-Utah), questioned Jackson regarding past prison sentences she issued as a trial court judge in cases involving child pornography that were less than the federal sentencing guidelines' recommended ranges.[19] After describing the details of a specific case, Hawley said "The guidelines called for ten years, the prosecutor wanted at least two, you gave him three months." He then quoted from Jackson's ruling where she said "I don't feel that it's appropriate to increase the penalty on the basis of the number of images or pre-pubescent victims as the guidelines require because these circumstances exist in many cases, if not most, and don't signal an especially heinous or egregious child pornography offense." Hawley asked, "If its not heinous or egregious, how would you describe it?"[20] Jackson replied, saying "It is heinous. It is egregious. What a judge has to do is determine how to sentence defendants proportionately, consistent with the elements that the statutes include, [and] with the requirements that Congress has set forward. [.] The guidelines, as you pointed out, are being departed from even with respect to the government's recommendation. The government, in this case and in others, has asked for a sentence that is substantially less than the guideline penalty. So what I was discussing was that phenomenon." Jackson also said that sentences in these cases involve elements in addition to prison time, like restraints on computer use and proximity to children.[20] Supreme Court expansion Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) asked Jackson about her stance on adding additional members to the Supreme Court. He asked, "Do you agree with Justice Breyer and Justice Ginsburg that court-packing is a bad idea?" Jackson responded, saying "It is a policy question for Congress and I am particularly mindful of not speaking to policy issues because I am so committed to staying in my lane of the system. Because I am just not willing to speak to issues that are properly in the province of this body."[21] Confirmation hearing: first day (3/21/22) The first day of Jackson's Senate confirmation hearings began at 11:00 a.m. EST. Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) and ranking member Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) provided opening statements, followed by members of the Senate Judiciary Committee. Thomas Griffith, a former George W. Bush (R) appointee to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, and Lisa Fairfax, a professor of law at the University of Pennsylvania, offered introductory remarks. After the introductions, the day ended with Jackson's opening statement. Judiciary Committee member statements Click the links below to access the opening statements made by the members of the Senate Judiciary Committee. Statements were obtained from senators' websites and the media. Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) John Cornyn (R-Texas) Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.) Mike Lee (R-Utah) Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) Ted Cruz (R-Texas) Christopher Coons (D-Del.) Ben Sasse (R-Neb.) Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) Josh Hawley (R-Mo.) Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii) Tom Cotton (R-Ark.) Cory Booker (D-N.J.) John Kennedy (R-La.) Alex Padilla (D-Calif.) Thom Tillis (R-N.C.) Jon Ossoff (D-Ga.) Marsha Blackburn (R-Tenn.) Ketanji Brown Jackson opening statement The video below shows Jackson's opening statement. Click here for a transcript of her speech. "U.S. Supreme Court Nominee Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson Opening Statement" March 21, 2022 Past confirmation votes Before Jackson's nomination to the Supreme Court, she had received three confirmation votes in the Senate for other positions. Her confirmations to the U.S. Sentencing Commission in 2010 and to the United States District Court for the District of Columbia in 2013 were approved by voice vote.[22][23] In 2021, Biden appointed Jackson to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. The Senate confirmed her in a 53-44 vote.[24] Expand the table below to see the roll call vote. Senate vote to confirm Ketanji Brown Jackson to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit (January 19, 2022) Senator Party State Vote Baldwin Democratic WI Yea Barrasso Republican WY Nay d Bennet Democratic CO Yea Blackburn Republican TN Nay d Blumenthal Democratic CT Yea Blunt Republican MO Not Voting Booker Democratic NJ Yea Boozman Republican AR Nay d Braun Republican IN Nay d Brown Democratic OH Yea Burr Republican NC Nay d Cantwell Democratic WA Yea Capito Republican WV Nay d Cardin Democratic MD Yea Carper Democratic DE Yea Casey Democratic PA Yea Cassidy Republican LA Nay d Collins Republican ME Yea Coons Democratic DE Yea Cornyn Republican TX Nay d Cortez Masto Democratic NV Yea Cotton Republican AR Nay d Cramer Republican ND Nay d Crapo Republican ID Nay d Cruz Republican TX Nay d Daines Republican MT Nay d Duckworth Democratic IL Yea Durbin Democratic IL Yea Ernst Republican IA Nay d Feinstein Democratic CA Yea Fischer Republican NE Nay d Gillibrand Democratic NY Yea Graham Republican SC Yea Grassley Republican IA Nay d Hagerty Republican TN Nay d Hassan Democratic NH Yea Hawley Republican MO Nay d Heinrich Democratic NM Yea Hickenlooper Democratic CO Yea Hirono Democratic HI Yea Hoeven Republican ND Nay d Hyde-Smith Republican MS Nay d Inhofe Republican OK Nay d Johnson Republican WI Nay d Kaine Democratic VA Yea Kelly Democratic AZ Yea Kennedy Republican LA Nay d King Independent ME Yea Klobuchar Democratic MN Yea Lankford Republican OK Nay d Leahy Democratic VT Yea Lee Republican UT Nay d Lujan Democratic NM Yea Lummis Republican WY Nay d Manchin Democratic WV Yea Markey Democratic MA Yea Marshall Republican KS Nay d McConnell Republican KY Nay d Menendez Democratic NJ Yea Merkley Democratic OR Yea Moran Republican KS Nay d Murkowski Republican AK Yea Murphy Democratic CT Yea Murray Democratic WA Yea Ossoff Democratic GA Yea Padilla Democratic CA Yea Paul Republican KY Nay d Peters Democratic MI Yea Portman Republican OH Nay d Reed Democratic RI Yea Risch Republican ID Nay d Romney Republican UT Nay d Rosen Democratic NV Yea Rounds Republican SD Nay d Rubio Republican FL Not Voting Sanders Independent VT Yea Sasse Republican NE Not Voting Schatz Democratic HI Yea Schumer Democratic NY Yea Scott Republican FL Nay d Scott Republican SC Nay d Shaheen Democratic NH Yea Shelby Republican AL Nay d Sinema Democratic AZ Yea Smith Democratic MN Yea Stabenow Democratic MI Yea Sullivan Republican AK Nay d Tester Democratic MT Yea Thune Republican SD Nay d Tillis Republican NC Nay d Toomey Republican PA Nay d Tuberville Republican AL Nay d Van Hollen Democratic MD Yea Warner Democratic VA Yea Warnock Democratic GA Yea Warren Democratic MA Yea Whitehouse Democratic RI Yea Wicker Republican MS Nay d Wyden Democratic OR Yea Young Republican IN Nay d Judiciary Committee questionnaire The Senate Judiciary Committee released Jackson's nominee questionnaire on March 1, 2022.[25] See also Supreme Court vacancy, 2022 Process to fill the vacated seat of Justice Stephen Breyer Amy Coney Barrett confirmation hearings Brett Kavanaugh confirmation hearings Neil Gorsuch confirmation hearings Supreme Court of the United States Footnotes ↑ The Hill, "Justice Breyer set to retire from Supreme Court on Thursday," June 29, 2022 ↑ The Washington Post, "Jackson to take Supreme Court oath Thurs., minutes after Breyer retires," June 29, 2022 ↑ White House, "President Biden Nominates Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson to Serve as Associate Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court," February 25, 2022 ↑ 4.0 4.1 Congress.gov, "PN1783 — Ketanji Brown Jackson — Supreme Court of the United States," accessed April 7, 2022 ↑ Since Jackson received a tied vote in committee, the full Senate voted on whether to advance her nomination to a confirmation vote. ↑ SCOTUSblog, "Jackson’s nomination hearings will begin March 21. Here’s what to expect.," March 3, 2022 ↑ Congress.gov, "PN1783 — Ketanji Brown Jackson — Supreme Court of the United States," accessed April 5, 2022 ↑ The Hill, "Senate panel to hold Supreme Court vote April 4," March 23, 2022 ↑ 9.0 9.1 YouTube, "WATCH: Sen. Thom Tillis argues against court packing in Supreme Court confirmation hearings," March 23, 2022 ↑ SCOTUSblog, "The Jackson hearings: Key moments from Day 3," March 24, 2022 ↑ YouTube, "WATCH: Jackson says she would recuse herself from Harvard case before Supreme Court," March 23, 2022 ↑ 12.0 12.1 YouTube, "WATCH: Sen. Klobuchar questions Jackson in Supreme Court confirmation hearings," March 23, 2022 ↑ 13.0 13.1 ABC News, "Jackson on abortion cases: 'Roe and Casey are the settled law'," March 22, 2022 ↑ YouTube, "WATCH: Sen. Marsha Blackburn presses Ketanji Brown Jackson about Roe v. Wade," March 22, 2022 ↑ 15.0 15.1 PBS News Hour, "WATCH: Supreme Court nominee Ketanji Brown Jackson defends work as an attorney for Guantanamo Bay prisoners," March 22, 2022 ↑ ABC News, "Jackson discusses representing Gitmo detainees," March 22, 2022 ↑ ABC News, "Cornyn questions Jackson on same-sex marriage," March 22, 2022 ↑ Politico, "Blackburn to Jackson: Can you define ‘the word woman’?" March 22, 2022 ↑ SCOTUSblog, "On second day of hearings, Jackson responds to Republican critiques on criminal sentencing," March 23, 2022 ↑ 20.0 20.1 YouTube, "WATCH: Sen. Josh Hawley questions Jackson in Supreme Court confirmation hearings," March 22, 2022 ↑ YouTube, "WATCH: Sen. Chuck Grassley questions Jackson in Supreme Court confirmation hearings," March 22, 2022 ↑ Congress.gov, "PN18 — Ketanji Brown Jackson — The Judiciary," accessed March 16, 2022 ↑ Congress.gov, "PN802 — Ketanji Brown Jackson — United States Sentencing Commission," accessed March 16, 2022 ↑ Congress.gov, "PN391 — Ketanji Brown Jackson — The Judiciary," accessed March 16, 2022 ↑ CNN, "New Senate questionnaire details Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson's White House contacts during nomination process," March 1, 2022 BallotpediaAboutOverview • What people are saying • Support Ballotpedia • Contact • Contribute • Job opportunitiesExecutive: Leslie Graves, Founder and CEO • Gwen Beattie, Chief Operating Officer Communications: Alison Graves, Director of Communications • Carley Allensworth • Abigail Campbell • Frank Festa • Sarah Groat • Nathaniel Harwood • Dillon Redmond • Erica Shumaker External Relations: Geoff Pallay, Director of External Relations • Ken Carbullido, Vice President of Election Product and Technology Strategy • Ashley Fleming • Thomas Mardik • Hannah Nelson Operations: Meghann Olshefski, Director of Operations • Amanda Herbert • Mandy Morris • Caroline Presnell • Kelly Rindfleisch Tech: Matt Latourelle, Director of Technology Operations • Ryan Burch • Kirsten Corrao • Beth Dellea • Travis Eden • Tate Kamish • Margaret Kearney • Eric Lotto • Joseph Sanchez • Mary Susmitha Contributors: Scott Rasmussen Editorial ContentJosh Altic, Director of Content • Daniel Anderson, Associate Director of Elections & Data • Cory Eucalitto, Associate Director of Features • Ryan Byrne, Managing Editor of Ballot Measures • Mandy McConnell, Managing Editor of News • Doug Kronaizl, Managing Editor of Local Expansion • Abbey Smith, Managing Editor of Elections • Janie Valentine, Managing Editor of Law • Joel Williams. Managing Editor of Events • Andrew Bahl • Jaclyn Beran • Marielle Bricker • Joseph Brusgard • Emma Burlingame • Kelly Coyle • Jon Dunn • Thomas Ellis • Nicole Fisher • Joseph Greaney • Thomas Grobben • Brianna Hosea • Molly Kehoe • Tyler King • Glorie Martinez • Norm Leahy, Senior Editor • Nathan Maxwell • Jimmy McAllister • Brandon McCauley • Ellie Mikus • Ellen Morrissey • Mackenzie Murphy • Kaley Platek • Samantha Post • Adam Powell • Annelise Reinwald • Ethan Rice • Spencer Richardson • Victoria Rose • Briana Ryan • Myj Saintyl • Maddy Salucka • Emma Soukup • Alexis Thacker • Mina Vogel • Samuel Wonacott • Trenton Woodcox Justices CHIEF JUSTICE JOHN ROBERTS ASSOCIATE JUSTICES SAMUEL ALITO AMY CONEY BARRETT NEIL GORSUCH KETANJI BROWN JACKSON ELENA KAGAN BRETT KAVANAUGH SONIA SOTOMAYOR CLARENCE THOMAS CASES BY TERM Supreme Court cases, October term 2025-2026 Supreme Court cases, October term 2024-2025 Supreme Court cases, October term 2023-2024 Supreme Court cases, October term 2022-2023 Supreme Court cases, October term 2021-2022 Supreme Court cases, October term 2020-2021 Supreme Court cases, October term 2019-2020 Supreme Court cases, October term 2018-2019 Supreme Court cases, October term 2017-2018 Supreme Court cases, October term 2016-2017 Supreme Court cases, October term 2015-2016 All earlier cases HISTORY OF THE COURT Cases by chief justice Cases by decade Recent vacancies 2022 VACANCY AND JACKSON CONFIRMATION 2020 VACANCY AND BARRETT CONFIRMATION 2018 VACANCY AND KAVANAUGH CONFIRMATION 2017 VACANCY AND GORSUCH CONFIRMATION Contents 1 Confirmation overview 2 Senate confirmation vote 3 Senate Judiciary Committee vote 3.1 Senate vote on motion to discharge the nomination 4 Confirmation hearing: fourth day (3/24/22) 4.1 Majority witnesses 4.2 Minority witnesses 5 Confirmation hearing: third day (3/23/22) 6 Confirmation hearing: second day (3/22/22) 7 Confirmation hearing: first day (3/21/22) 7.1 Judiciary Committee member statements 7.2 Ketanji Brown Jackson opening statement 8 Past confirmation votes 9 Judiciary Committee questionnaire 10 See also 11 Footnotes Supreme Court vacancy, 2022 Nominee Ketanji Brown Jackson Former Justice Stephen Breyer Coverage Supreme Court vacancy, 2022 Ketanji Brown Jackson confirmation hearings Process to fill the vacated seat of Justice Stephen Breyer Resignation of Stephen Breyer from the U.S. Supreme Court Past vacancies:Select a vacancy:Supreme Court vacancy, 2020Supreme Court vacancy, 2018: An overviewSupreme Court vacancy, 2017: An overviewSubmit Ketanji Brown Jackson was sworn in to serve on the United States Supreme Court on June 30, 2022, the same day Stephen Breyer retired from the court.[1][2] President Joe Biden (D) announced he would nominate Jackson to fill Breyer's vacancy on the court on February 25.[3] Jackson was confirmed by the Senate in a 53-47 vote on April 7.[4] All 48 Senate Democrats voted to approve Jackson's confirmation, along with the two Independents who caucus with Democrats and Republican Sens. Susan Collins (R-Maine), Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska), and Mitt Romney (R-Utah). The 47 other Republicans in the chamber voted against the confirmation. All nominees to the court are subject to the advice and consent of the United States Senate. Judicial nominations from the president are referred to the Senate Judiciary Committee. At the time of Jackson's hearing, 22 senators sat on the committee, including 11 Republicans and 11 Democrats. The committee chairman was Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) and the ranking member was Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa). This page provides coverage related to Jackson's Senate confirmation. Confirmation overview The table below shows an overview of Jackson's Supreme Court confirmation process. Overview of confirmation process for Ketanji Brown Jackson Nominee Announced Nominated Senate Judiciary Committee hearings Senate Judiciary Committee vote Senate vote on motion to discharge[5] Senate vote Swearing-in Ketanji Brown Jackson February 25, 2022 February 28, 2022 March 21-24, 2022 No recommendation (11-11)April 4, 2022 Approved (53-47)April 4, 2022 Approved (53-47)April 7, 2022 June 30, 2022 Senate confirmation vote On April 7, the Senate voted 53-47 to confirm Jackson to the United States Supreme Court.[4] All 48 Democrats voted yea The two Independents who caucus with Democrats voted yea Sens. Susan Collins (R-Maine), Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska), and Mitt Romney (R-Utah) voted yea 47 Republicans voted nay Senate vote to confirm Ketanji Brown Jackson to the United States Supreme Court Senator Party State Vote Baldwin Democratic WI Yea Barrasso Republican WY Nay d Bennet Democratic CO Yea Blackburn Republican TN Nay d Blumenthal Democratic CT Yea Blunt Republican MO Nay d Booker Democratic NJ Yea Boozman Republican AR Nay d Braun Republican IN Nay d Brown Democratic OH Yea Burr Republican NC Nay d Cantwell Democratic WA Yea Capito Republican WV Nay d Cardin Democratic MD Yea Carper Democratic DE Yea Casey Democratic PA Yea Cassidy Republican LA Nay d Collins Republican ME Yea Coons Democratic DE Yea Cornyn Republican TX Nay d Cortez Masto Democratic NV Yea Cotton Republican AR Nay d Cramer Republican ND Nay d Crapo Republican ID Nay d Cruz Republican TX Nay d Daines Republican MT Nay d Duckworth Democratic IL Yea Durbin Democratic IL Yea Ernst Republican IA Nay d Feinstein Democratic CA Yea Fischer Republican NE Nay d Gillibrand Democratic NY Yea Graham Republican SC Nay d Grassley Republican IA Nay d Hagerty Republican TN Nay d Hassan Democratic NH Yea Hawley Republican MO Nay d Heinrich Democratic NM Yea Hickenlooper Democratic CO Yea Hirono Democratic HI Yea Hoeven Republican ND Nay d Hyde-Smith Republican MS Nay d Inhofe Republican OK Nay d Johnson Republican WI Nay d Kaine Democratic VA Yea Kelly Democratic AZ Yea Kennedy Republican LA Nay d King Independent ME Yea Klobuchar Democratic MN Yea Lankford Republican OK Nay d Leahy Democratic VT Yea Lee Republican UT Nay d Lujan Democratic NM Yea Lummis Republican WY Nay d Manchin Democratic WV Yea Markey Democratic MA Yea Marshall Republican KS Nay d McConnell Republican KY Nay d Menendez Democratic NJ Yea Merkley Democratic OR Yea Moran Republican KS Nay d Murkowski Republican AK Yea Murphy Democratic CT Yea Murray Democratic WA Yea Ossoff Democratic GA Yea Padilla Democratic CA Yea Paul Republican KY Nay d Peters Democratic MI Yea Portman Republican OH Nay d Reed Democratic RI Yea Risch Republican ID Nay d Romney Republican UT Yea Rosen Democratic NV Yea Rounds Republican SD Nay d Rubio Republican FL Nay d Sanders Independent VT Yea Sasse Republican NE Nay d Schatz Democratic HI Yea Schumer Democratic NY Yea Scott Republican FL Nay d Scott Republican SC Nay d Shaheen Democratic NH Yea Shelby Republican AL Nay d Sinema Democratic AZ Yea Smith Democratic MN Yea Stabenow Democratic MI Yea Sullivan Republican AK Nay d Tester Democratic MT Yea Thune Republican SD Nay d Tillis Republican NC Nay d Toomey Republican PA Nay d Tuberville Republican AL Nay d Van Hollen Democratic MD Yea Warner Democratic VA Yea Warnock Democratic GA Yea Warren Democratic MA Yea Whitehouse Democratic RI Yea Wicker Republican MS Nay d Wyden Democratic OR Yea Young Republican IN Nay d Senate Judiciary Committee vote The table below shows how members of the Senate Judiciary Committee voted regarding the advancement of Jackson's nomination. The vote was 11-11 along party lines. Jackson could advance with a tied vote under an organizing resolution passed at the start of the 117th Congress.[6] Senate Judiciary Committee vote to advance Ketanji Brown Jackson's nomination to the United States Supreme Court Senator Party State Vote Blackburn Republican TN Nay d Blumenthal Democratic CT Yea Booker Democratic NJ Yea Coons Democratic DE Yea Cornyn Republican TX Nay d Cotton Republican AR Nay d Cruz Republican TX Nay d Durbin Democratic IL Yea Feinstein Democratic CA Yea Graham Republican SC Nay d Grassley Republican IA Nay d Hawley Republican MO Nay d Hirono Democratic HI Yea Kennedy Republican LA Nay d Klobuchar Democratic MN Yea Leahy Democratic VT Yea Lee Republican UT Nay d Ossoff Democratic GA Yea Padilla Democratic CA Yea Sasse Republican NE Nay d Tillis Republican NC Nay d Whitehouse Democratic RI Yea Senate vote on motion to discharge the nomination Since Jackson's committee vote was tied, the full Senate needed to vote to advance the nomination. On April 4, the Senate voted 53-47 to approve the motion to discharge.[7] Senate vote to advance Ketanji Brown Jackson's nomination to the United States Supreme Court Senator Party State Vote Baldwin Democratic WI Yea Barrasso Republican WY Nay d Bennet Democratic CO Yea Blackburn Republican TN Nay d Blumenthal Democratic CT Yea Blunt Republican MO Nay d Booker Democratic NJ Yea Boozman Republican AR Nay d Braun Republican IN Nay d Brown Democratic OH Yea Burr Republican NC Nay d Cantwell Democratic WA Yea Capito Republican WV Nay d Cardin Democratic MD Yea Carper Democratic DE Yea Casey Democratic PA Yea Cassidy Republican LA Nay d Collins Republican ME Yea Coons Democratic DE Yea Cornyn Republican TX Nay d Cortez Masto Democratic NV Yea Cotton Republican AR Nay d Cramer Republican ND Nay d Crapo Republican ID Nay d Cruz Republican TX Nay d Daines Republican MT Nay d Duckworth Democratic IL Yea Durbin Democratic IL Yea Ernst Republican IA Nay d Feinstein Democratic CA Yea Fischer Republican NE Nay d Gillibrand Democratic NY Yea Graham Republican SC Nay d Grassley Republican IA Nay d Hagerty Republican TN Nay d Hassan Democratic NH Yea Hawley Republican MO Nay d Heinrich Democratic NM Yea Hickenlooper Democratic CO Yea Hirono Democratic HI Yea Hoeven Republican ND Nay d Hyde-Smith Republican MS Nay d Inhofe Republican OK Nay d Johnson Republican WI Nay d Kaine Democratic VA Yea Kelly Democratic AZ Yea Kennedy Republican LA Nay d King Independent ME Yea Klobuchar Democratic MN Yea Lankford Republican OK Nay d Leahy Democratic VT Yea Lee Republican UT Nay d Lujan Democratic NM Yea Lummis Republican WY Nay d Manchin Democratic WV Yea Markey Democratic MA Yea Marshall Republican KS Nay d McConnell Republican KY Nay d Menendez Democratic NJ Yea Merkley Democratic OR Yea Moran Republican KS Nay d Murkowski Republican AK Yea Murphy Democratic CT Yea Murray Democratic WA Yea Ossoff Democratic GA Yea Padilla Democratic CA Yea Paul Republican KY Nay d Peters Democratic MI Yea Portman Republican OH Nay d Reed Democratic RI Yea Risch Republican ID Nay d Romney Republican UT Yea Rosen Democratic NV Yea Rounds Republican SD Nay d Rubio Republican FL Nay d Sanders Independent VT Yea Sasse Republican NE Nay d Schatz Democratic HI Yea Schumer Democratic NY Yea Scott Republican FL Nay d Scott Republican SC Nay d Shaheen Democratic NH Yea Shelby Republican AL Nay d Sinema Democratic AZ Yea Smith Democratic MN Yea Stabenow Democratic MI Yea Sullivan Republican AK Nay d Tester Democratic MT Yea Thune Republican SD Nay d Tillis Republican NC Nay d Toomey Republican PA Nay d Tuberville Republican AL Nay d Van Hollen Democratic MD Yea Warner Democratic VA Yea Warnock Democratic GA Yea Warren Democratic MA Yea Whitehouse Democratic RI Yea Wicker Republican MS Nay d Wyden Democratic OR Yea Young Republican IN Nay d Confirmation hearing: fourth day (3/24/22) Witnesses supporting and opposing Jackson's confirmation spoke during the final day of hearings. Witnesses included the American Bar Association, five witnesses brought by Democrats, and five witnesses brought by Republicans. See below for a full list: American Bar Association Majority witnesses Rep. Joyce Beatty (D-Ohio) Risa Goluboff - Dean, Arnold H. Leon Professor of Law, and Professor of History at University of Virginia Wade Henderson - President & CEO, The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights Richard B. Rosenthal Frederick Thomas - National President, National Organization of Black Law Enforcement Executives (NOBLE) Minority witnesses Alabama Attorney General Steve Marshall Jennifer Mascott - Assistant Professor of Law & Co-Executive Director at the C. Boyden Gray Center for the Study of the Administrative State, Antonin Scalia Law School, George Mason University Eleanor McCullen Keisha Russell, First Liberty Alessandra Serano, Operation Underground Railroad Confirmation hearing: third day (3/23/22) The third day of Jackson's Senate confirmation hearings consisted of members of the judiciary committee questioning the judge, with each senator allotted 20 minutes. Topics in the questioning included Jackson's approach to sentencing, Jackson's recusal from Students for Fair Admissions, Inc. v. President & Fellows of Harvard, and the Supreme Court's use of emergency orders. Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) also announced the committee would vote on advancing Jackson's nomination on April 4.[8] The topics below were comprised from a number of analysis and summary articles. Jackson's approach to sentencing Sen. Thom Tillis (R-N.C.) asked Jackson about a specific opinion where she ruled against a coronavirus-related early release request. Tillis asked, "How can I not read this to say that perhaps they should be released irrespective of the crime for which they've been charged?" Jackson replied, saying "The question for courts, under the statute that Congress has enacted for compassionate release was whether COVID-19, a pandemic in the jail, was an extraordinary and compelling circumstance that should warrant release. What I said in that statement that you read was it would seem as though something like a deadly pandemic rampant in the jails would justify releasing everyone, but I go on to say in that very opinion Congress has indicated that we have to take each case individually, we have to look at the harm to the community that might be caused by the release of individual people."[9] Tillis later said, "If I take a look at your responses to some of my colleagues' questions and your statements to some of the defendants, it seems as though you're a very kind person and that there's at least a level of empathy that enters into your treatment of a defendant that some could view as maybe beyond what some of us would be comfortable with, with respect to administering justice." Jackson responded, saying "The statements that I made about my practices as a trial judge [.] were intended to explain how trial judges operate and how they impose sentences within the framework that Congress has provided. The statute that applies to us tells us to look at all the various factors that Congress has set forward, including the nature and circumstances of the offense, the history and characteristics of the defendant, and it tells us that we should be imposing a sentence sufficient but not greater than necessary to promote the purposes of punishment. Congress also tells us that one of the purposes of punishment is rehabilitation."[9][10] Jackson's recusal from Students for Fair Admissions, Inc. v. President & Fellows of Harvard Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) asked Jackson about Students for Fair Admissions, Inc. v. President & Fellows of Harvard, a case scheduled for argument before the Supreme Court during the court's October 2022-2023 term about Harvard University and the University of North Carolina admissions programs' use of race as a factor in admissions. Cruz asked, "You're on the board of overseers of Harvard. If you're confirmed, do you intend to recuse from this lawsuit?" Jackson said, "That is my plan."[11] Supreme Court's use of emergency orders Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) asked Jackson about the Supreme Court's use of unsigned orders, referencing an order the Court handed down that day overturning a redistricting decision from the Wisconsin Supreme Court. Klobuchar said, "Yesterday, you and I discussed the court's increasing reliance on issuing unsigned orders on its shadow docket. [.] While I'm not going to ask you about [the Supreme Court's order], because you couldn't possibly have read it, just your record of writing decisions that are thorough, and listening to litigants in cases. Could you just generally talk about the importance of having full briefings on the merits as well as public oral argument if you believe in transparency?"[12] Jackson responded, saying "The duty of a judge is to make determinations and under our system of adversarial proceedings you make determinations based on arguments and it's important to do so. I know, with respect to the emergency docket, you haven't asked me the question about it because I would say what I said before, which is I would benefit from being able to speak with the justices. I understand that there's a need to balance getting full briefing with emergency circumstances."[12] Confirmation hearing: second day (3/22/22) The second day of Jackson's Senate confirmation hearings consisted of members of the judiciary committee questioning the judge, with each senator allotted 30 minutes. Recurring themes in the questioning included abortion, Jackson's experience representing Guantanamo Bay detainees, LGBT issues, Jackson's sentencing record as a trial court judge, and Supreme Court expansion. The topics below were comprised from a number of analysis and summary articles. Abortion Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) asked, "Do you agree with Justice Kavanaugh that Roe v. Wade is settled as a precedent, and will you, like Justice Barrett, commit to obey all the rules of stare decisis in cases related to the issue of abortion?" Jackson replied, saying "I do agree with both Justice Kavanaugh and Justice Barrett on this issue. Roe and Casey are the settled law of the Supreme Court concerning the right to terminate a woman's pregnancy."[13] Feinstein went on to ask whether Roe was a super precedent, to which Jackson said "All Supreme Court cases are precedential, they're binding. And their principles and their rulings have to be followed. Roe and Casey, as you say, have been reaffirmed by the court, and have been relied upon, and reliance is one of the factors that the court considers when it seeks to revisit or is asked to revisit a precedent."[13] Sen. Marsha Blackburn (R-Tenn.) said, "The Supreme Court is reconsidering whether the constitution protects the right to an abortion in [Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization]. If you're confirmed, you will be in a position to apply the court's decision in Dobbs, whatever that decision is going to be, and you've talked about following precedent. Do you commit to respecting the court's decision if it rules that Roe was wrongly decided and that the issue of abortion should be sent back to the states?" Jackson replied, saying "Whatever the Supreme Court decides in Dobbs will be the precedent of the Supreme Court. It will be worthy of respect in the sense that it is the precedent, and I commit to treating it as I would any other precedent of the Supreme Court."[14] Jackson's experience representing Guantanamo Bay detainees Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas) and Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) both questioned Jackson regarding her experience representing Guantanamo Bay detainees. Specifically, the senators asked her about an amicus brief she filed before the Supreme Court on behalf clients including the Rutherford Institute, the Cato Institute, and The Constitution Project. Graham asked, "Do you believe that [.] America was acting as war criminals in holding these detainees?" Jackson said, "What I was doing in the context of the habeas petitions at this very early stage in the process was making allegations to preserve issues on behalf of my clients."[15] Sen. Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) asked about Jackson's defense of Guantanamo Bay detainees while working as a public defender. He asked, "What principles drove you to get involved with cases in such a difficult time with Guantanamo Bay?"[15] Jackson said she was assigned to the cases and, in response to a similar question from Sen. Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), that "After 9/11, there were also lawyers who recognized that our nation's values were under attack, that we couldn't let the terrorists win by changing who we were fundamentally. And what that meant was that the people who were being accused by our government of having engaged in actions related to this, under our Constitutional scheme, were entitled to representation."[16] LGBT issues Cornyn asked Jackson about Supreme Court rulings on same-sex marriage, saying "When the Supreme Court decides that something that is not even in the Constitution is a fundamental right and no state can pass any law that conflicts with the Supreme Court's edict, particularly in an area where people have sincerely held religious beliefs, doesn't that necessarily create a conflict between what people may believe as a matter of their religious doctrine or faith and what the federal government says is the law of the land?" Jackson responded, saying "That is the nature of a right. That when there is a right it means that there are limitations on regulation, even if people are regulating pursuant to their sincerely held religious beliefs."[17] Blackburn asked Jackson about transgender people participating in sports. Blackburn said, "Just last week an entire generation of young girls watched as our taxpayer-funded institutions permitted a biological man to compete and beat a biological woman in the NCAA swimming championships. What message do you think this sends to girls who aspire to compete and win in sports at the highest levels?" Jackson said, "I'm not sure what message that sends. If you're asking me about the legal issues related to it, those are topics that are being hotly discussed, as you say, and could come to the court."[18] Jackson's sentencing record as a trial court judge Several Republican senators, including Sens. Tom Cotton (R-Ark.), Ted Cruz (R-Texas), Josh Hawley (R-Mo.), and Mike Lee (R-Utah), questioned Jackson regarding past prison sentences she issued as a trial court judge in cases involving child pornography that were less than the federal sentencing guidelines' recommended ranges.[19] After describing the details of a specific case, Hawley said "The guidelines called for ten years, the prosecutor wanted at least two, you gave him three months." He then quoted from Jackson's ruling where she said "I don't feel that it's appropriate to increase the penalty on the basis of the number of images or pre-pubescent victims as the guidelines require because these circumstances exist in many cases, if not most, and don't signal an especially heinous or egregious child pornography offense." Hawley asked, "If its not heinous or egregious, how would you describe it?"[20] Jackson replied, saying "It is heinous. It is egregious. What a judge has to do is determine how to sentence defendants proportionately, consistent with the elements that the statutes include, [and] with the requirements that Congress has set forward. [.] The guidelines, as you pointed out, are being departed from even with respect to the government's recommendation. The government, in this case and in others, has asked for a sentence that is substantially less than the guideline penalty. So what I was discussing was that phenomenon." Jackson also said that sentences in these cases involve elements in addition to prison time, like restraints on computer use and proximity to children.[20] Supreme Court expansion Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) asked Jackson about her stance on adding additional members to the Supreme Court. He asked, "Do you agree with Justice Breyer and Justice Ginsburg that court-packing is a bad idea?" Jackson responded, saying "It is a policy question for Congress and I am particularly mindful of not speaking to policy issues because I am so committed to staying in my lane of the system. Because I am just not willing to speak to issues that are properly in the province of this body."[21] Confirmation hearing: first day (3/21/22) The first day of Jackson's Senate confirmation hearings began at 11:00 a.m. EST. Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) and ranking member Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) provided opening statements, followed by members of the Senate Judiciary Committee. Thomas Griffith, a former George W. Bush (R) appointee to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, and Lisa Fairfax, a professor of law at the University of Pennsylvania, offered introductory remarks. After the introductions, the day ended with Jackson's opening statement. Judiciary Committee member statements Click the links below to access the opening statements made by the members of the Senate Judiciary Committee. Statements were obtained from senators' websites and the media. Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) John Cornyn (R-Texas) Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.) Mike Lee (R-Utah) Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) Ted Cruz (R-Texas) Christopher Coons (D-Del.) Ben Sasse (R-Neb.) Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) Josh Hawley (R-Mo.) Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii) Tom Cotton (R-Ark.) Cory Booker (D-N.J.) John Kennedy (R-La.) Alex Padilla (D-Calif.) Thom Tillis (R-N.C.) Jon Ossoff (D-Ga.) Marsha Blackburn (R-Tenn.) Ketanji Brown Jackson opening statement The video below shows Jackson's opening statement. Click here for a transcript of her speech. "U.S. Supreme Court Nominee Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson Opening Statement" March 21, 2022 Past confirmation votes Before Jackson's nomination to the Supreme Court, she had received three confirmation votes in the Senate for other positions. Her confirmations to the U.S. Sentencing Commission in 2010 and to the United States District Court for the District of Columbia in 2013 were approved by voice vote.[22][23] In 2021, Biden appointed Jackson to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. The Senate confirmed her in a 53-44 vote.[24] Expand the table below to see the roll call vote. Senate vote to confirm Ketanji Brown Jackson to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit (January 19, 2022) Senator Party State Vote Baldwin Democratic WI Yea Barrasso Republican WY Nay d Bennet Democratic CO Yea Blackburn Republican TN Nay d Blumenthal Democratic CT Yea Blunt Republican MO Not Voting Booker Democratic NJ Yea Boozman Republican AR Nay d Braun Republican IN Nay d Brown Democratic OH Yea Burr Republican NC Nay d Cantwell Democratic WA Yea Capito Republican WV Nay d Cardin Democratic MD Yea Carper Democratic DE Yea Casey Democratic PA Yea Cassidy Republican LA Nay d Collins Republican ME Yea Coons Democratic DE Yea Cornyn Republican TX Nay d Cortez Masto Democratic NV Yea Cotton Republican AR Nay d Cramer Republican ND Nay d Crapo Republican ID Nay d Cruz Republican TX Nay d Daines Republican MT Nay d Duckworth Democratic IL Yea Durbin Democratic IL Yea Ernst Republican IA Nay d Feinstein Democratic CA Yea Fischer Republican NE Nay d Gillibrand Democratic NY Yea Graham Republican SC Yea Grassley Republican IA Nay d Hagerty Republican TN Nay d Hassan Democratic NH Yea Hawley Republican MO Nay d Heinrich Democratic NM Yea Hickenlooper Democratic CO Yea Hirono Democratic HI Yea Hoeven Republican ND Nay d Hyde-Smith Republican MS Nay d Inhofe Republican OK Nay d Johnson Republican WI Nay d Kaine Democratic VA Yea Kelly Democratic AZ Yea Kennedy Republican LA Nay d King Independent ME Yea Klobuchar Democratic MN Yea Lankford Republican OK Nay d Leahy Democratic VT Yea Lee Republican UT Nay d Lujan Democratic NM Yea Lummis Republican WY Nay d Manchin Democratic WV Yea Markey Democratic MA Yea Marshall Republican KS Nay d McConnell Republican KY Nay d Menendez Democratic NJ Yea Merkley Democratic OR Yea Moran Republican KS Nay d Murkowski Republican AK Yea Murphy Democratic CT Yea Murray Democratic WA Yea Ossoff Democratic GA Yea Padilla Democratic CA Yea Paul Republican KY Nay d Peters Democratic MI Yea Portman Republican OH Nay d Reed Democratic RI Yea Risch Republican ID Nay d Romney Republican UT Nay d Rosen Democratic NV Yea Rounds Republican SD Nay d Rubio Republican FL Not Voting Sanders Independent VT Yea Sasse Republican NE Not Voting Schatz Democratic HI Yea Schumer Democratic NY Yea Scott Republican FL Nay d Scott Republican SC Nay d Shaheen Democratic NH Yea Shelby Republican AL Nay d Sinema Democratic AZ Yea Smith Democratic MN Yea Stabenow Democratic MI Yea Sullivan Republican AK Nay d Tester Democratic MT Yea Thune Republican SD Nay d Tillis Republican NC Nay d Toomey Republican PA Nay d Tuberville Republican AL Nay d Van Hollen Democratic MD Yea Warner Democratic VA Yea Warnock Democratic GA Yea Warren Democratic MA Yea Whitehouse Democratic RI Yea Wicker Republican MS Nay d Wyden Democratic OR Yea Young Republican IN Nay d Judiciary Committee questionnaire The Senate Judiciary Committee released Jackson's nominee questionnaire on March 1, 2022.[25] See also Supreme Court vacancy, 2022 Process to fill the vacated seat of Justice Stephen Breyer Amy Coney Barrett confirmation hearings Brett Kavanaugh confirmation hearings Neil Gorsuch confirmation hearings Supreme Court of the United States Footnotes ↑ The Hill, "Justice Breyer set to retire from Supreme Court on Thursday," June 29, 2022 ↑ The Washington Post, "Jackson to take Supreme Court oath Thurs., minutes after Breyer retires," June 29, 2022 ↑ White House, "President Biden Nominates Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson to Serve as Associate Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court," February 25, 2022 ↑ 4.0 4.1 Congress.gov, "PN1783 — Ketanji Brown Jackson — Supreme Court of the United States," accessed April 7, 2022 ↑ Since Jackson received a tied vote in committee, the full Senate voted on whether to advance her nomination to a confirmation vote. ↑ SCOTUSblog, "Jackson’s nomination hearings will begin March 21. Here’s what to expect.," March 3, 2022 ↑ Congress.gov, "PN1783 — Ketanji Brown Jackson — Supreme Court of the United States," accessed April 5, 2022 ↑ The Hill, "Senate panel to hold Supreme Court vote April 4," March 23, 2022 ↑ 9.0 9.1 YouTube, "WATCH: Sen. Thom Tillis argues against court packing in Supreme Court confirmation hearings," March 23, 2022 ↑ SCOTUSblog, "The Jackson hearings: Key moments from Day 3," March 24, 2022 ↑ YouTube, "WATCH: Jackson says she would recuse herself from Harvard case before Supreme Court," March 23, 2022 ↑ 12.0 12.1 YouTube, "WATCH: Sen. Klobuchar questions Jackson in Supreme Court confirmation hearings," March 23, 2022 ↑ 13.0 13.1 ABC News, "Jackson on abortion cases: 'Roe and Casey are the settled law'," March 22, 2022 ↑ YouTube, "WATCH: Sen. Marsha Blackburn presses Ketanji Brown Jackson about Roe v. Wade," March 22, 2022 ↑ 15.0 15.1 PBS News Hour, "WATCH: Supreme Court nominee Ketanji Brown Jackson defends work as an attorney for Guantanamo Bay prisoners," March 22, 2022 ↑ ABC News, "Jackson discusses representing Gitmo detainees," March 22, 2022 ↑ ABC News, "Cornyn questions Jackson on same-sex marriage," March 22, 2022 ↑ Politico, "Blackburn to Jackson: Can you define ‘the word woman’?" March 22, 2022 ↑ SCOTUSblog, "On second day of hearings, Jackson responds to Republican critiques on criminal sentencing," March 23, 2022 ↑ 20.0 20.1 YouTube, "WATCH: Sen. Josh Hawley questions Jackson in Supreme Court confirmation hearings," March 22, 2022 ↑ YouTube, "WATCH: Sen. Chuck Grassley questions Jackson in Supreme Court confirmation hearings," March 22, 2022 ↑ Congress.gov, "PN18 — Ketanji Brown Jackson — The Judiciary," accessed March 16, 2022 ↑ Congress.gov, "PN802 — Ketanji Brown Jackson — United States Sentencing Commission," accessed March 16, 2022 ↑ Congress.gov, "PN391 — Ketanji Brown Jackson — The Judiciary," accessed March 16, 2022 ↑ CNN, "New Senate questionnaire details Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson's White House contacts during nomination process," March 1, 2022 BallotpediaAboutOverview • What people are saying • Support Ballotpedia • Contact • Contribute • Job opportunitiesExecutive: Leslie Graves, Founder and CEO • Gwen Beattie, Chief Operating Officer Communications: Alison Graves, Director of Communications • Carley Allensworth • Abigail Campbell • Frank Festa • Sarah Groat • Nathaniel Harwood • Dillon Redmond • Erica Shumaker External Relations: Geoff Pallay, Director of External Relations • Ken Carbullido, Vice President of Election Product and Technology Strategy • Ashley Fleming • Thomas Mardik • Hannah Nelson Operations: Meghann Olshefski, Director of Operations • Amanda Herbert • Mandy Morris • Caroline Presnell • Kelly Rindfleisch Tech: Matt Latourelle, Director of Technology Operations • Ryan Burch • Kirsten Corrao • Beth Dellea • Travis Eden • Tate Kamish • Margaret Kearney • Eric Lotto • Joseph Sanchez • Mary Susmitha Contributors: Scott Rasmussen Editorial ContentJosh Altic, Director of Content • Daniel Anderson, Associate Director of Elections & Data • Cory Eucalitto, Associate Director of Features • Ryan Byrne, Managing Editor of Ballot Measures • Mandy McConnell, Managing Editor of News • Doug Kronaizl, Managing Editor of Local Expansion • Abbey Smith, Managing Editor of Elections • Janie Valentine, Managing Editor of Law • Joel Williams. Managing Editor of Events • Andrew Bahl • Jaclyn Beran • Marielle Bricker • Joseph Brusgard • Emma Burlingame • Kelly Coyle • Jon Dunn • Thomas Ellis • Nicole Fisher • Joseph Greaney • Thomas Grobben • Brianna Hosea • Molly Kehoe • Tyler King • Glorie Martinez • Norm Leahy, Senior Editor • Nathan Maxwell • Jimmy McAllister • Brandon McCauley • Ellie Mikus • Ellen Morrissey • Mackenzie Murphy • Kaley Platek • Samantha Post • Adam Powell • Annelise Reinwald • Ethan Rice • Spencer Richardson • Victoria Rose • Briana Ryan • Myj Saintyl • Maddy Salucka • Emma Soukup • Alexis Thacker • Mina Vogel • Samuel Wonacott • Trenton Woodcox Justices CHIEF JUSTICE JOHN ROBERTS ASSOCIATE JUSTICES SAMUEL ALITO AMY CONEY BARRETT NEIL GORSUCH KETANJI BROWN JACKSON ELENA KAGAN BRETT KAVANAUGH SONIA SOTOMAYOR CLARENCE THOMAS CASES BY TERM Supreme Court cases, October term 2025-2026 Supreme Court cases, October term 2024-2025 Supreme Court cases, October term 2023-2024 Supreme Court cases, October term 2022-2023 Supreme Court cases, October term 2021-2022 Supreme Court cases, October term 2020-2021 Supreme Court cases, October term 2019-2020 Supreme Court cases, October term 2018-2019 Supreme Court cases, October term 2017-2018 Supreme Court cases, October term 2016-2017 Supreme Court cases, October term 2015-2016 All earlier cases HISTORY OF THE COURT Cases by chief justice Cases by decade Recent vacancies 2022 VACANCY AND JACKSON CONFIRMATION 2020 VACANCY AND BARRETT CONFIRMATION 2018 VACANCY AND KAVANAUGH CONFIRMATION 2017 VACANCY AND GORSUCH CONFIRMATION Justices CHIEF JUSTICE JOHN ROBERTS ASSOCIATE JUSTICES SAMUEL ALITO AMY CONEY BARRETT NEIL GORSUCH KETANJI BROWN JACKSON ELENA KAGAN BRETT KAVANAUGH SONIA SOTOMAYOR CLARENCE THOMAS CHIEF JUSTICE JOHN ROBERTS ASSOCIATE JUSTICES SAMUEL ALITO AMY CONEY BARRETT NEIL GORSUCH KETANJI BROWN JACKSON ELENA KAGAN BRETT KAVANAUGH SONIA SOTOMAYOR CLARENCE THOMAS SAMUEL ALITO AMY CONEY BARRETT NEIL GORSUCH KETANJI BROWN JACKSON ELENA KAGAN BRETT KAVANAUGH SONIA SOTOMAYOR CLARENCE THOMAS CASES BY TERM Supreme Court cases, October term 2025-2026 Supreme Court cases, October term 2024-2025 Supreme Court cases, October term 2023-2024 Supreme Court cases, October term 2022-2023 Supreme Court cases, October term 2021-2022 Supreme Court cases, October term 2020-2021 Supreme Court cases, October term 2019-2020 Supreme Court cases, October term 2018-2019 Supreme Court cases, October term 2017-2018 Supreme Court cases, October term 2016-2017 Supreme Court cases, October term 2015-2016 All earlier cases Supreme Court cases, October term 2025-2026 Supreme Court cases, October term 2024-2025 Supreme Court cases, October term 2023-2024 Supreme Court cases, October term 2022-2023 Supreme Court cases, October term 2021-2022 Supreme Court cases, October term 2020-2021 Supreme Court cases, October term 2019-2020 Supreme Court cases, October term 2018-2019 Supreme Court cases, October term 2017-2018 Supreme Court cases, October term 2016-2017 Supreme Court cases, October term 2015-2016 All earlier cases HISTORY OF THE COURT Cases by chief justice Cases by decade Cases by chief justice Cases by decade Recent vacancies 2022 VACANCY AND JACKSON CONFIRMATION 2020 VACANCY AND BARRETT CONFIRMATION 2018 VACANCY AND KAVANAUGH CONFIRMATION 2017 VACANCY AND GORSUCH CONFIRMATION 2022 VACANCY AND JACKSON CONFIRMATION 2020 VACANCY AND BARRETT CONFIRMATION 2018 VACANCY AND KAVANAUGH CONFIRMATION 2017 VACANCY AND GORSUCH CONFIRMATION Contents 1 Confirmation overview 2 Senate confirmation vote 3 Senate Judiciary Committee vote 3.1 Senate vote on motion to discharge the nomination 4 Confirmation hearing: fourth day (3/24/22) 4.1 Majority witnesses 4.2 Minority witnesses 5 Confirmation hearing: third day (3/23/22) 6 Confirmation hearing: second day (3/22/22) 7 Confirmation hearing: first day (3/21/22) 7.1 Judiciary Committee member statements 7.2 Ketanji Brown Jackson opening statement 8 Past confirmation votes 9 Judiciary Committee questionnaire 10 See also 11 Footnotes Contents 1 Confirmation overview 2 Senate confirmation vote 3 Senate Judiciary Committee vote 3.1 Senate vote on motion to discharge the nomination 4 Confirmation hearing: fourth day (3/24/22) 4.1 Majority witnesses 4.2 Minority witnesses 5 Confirmation hearing: third day (3/23/22) 6 Confirmation hearing: second day (3/22/22) 7 Confirmation hearing: first day (3/21/22) 7.1 Judiciary Committee member statements 7.2 Ketanji Brown Jackson opening statement 8 Past confirmation votes 9 Judiciary Committee questionnaire 10 See also 11 Footnotes 1 Confirmation overview 2 Senate confirmation vote 3 Senate Judiciary Committee vote 3.1 Senate vote on motion to discharge the nomination 3.1 Senate vote on motion to discharge the nomination 4 Confirmation hearing: fourth day (3/24/22) 4.1 Majority witnesses 4.2 Minority witnesses 4.1 Majority witnesses 4.2 Minority witnesses 5 Confirmation hearing: third day (3/23/22) 6 Confirmation hearing: second day (3/22/22) 7 Confirmation hearing: first day (3/21/22) 7.1 Judiciary Committee member statements 7.2 Ketanji Brown Jackson opening statement 7.1 Judiciary Committee member statements 7.2 Ketanji Brown Jackson opening statement 8 Past confirmation votes 9 Judiciary Committee questionnaire 10 See also 11 Footnotes Select a vacancy:Supreme Court vacancy, 2020Supreme Court vacancy, 2018: An overviewSupreme Court vacancy, 2017: An overviewSubmit Ketanji Brown Jackson was sworn in to serve on the United States Supreme Court on June 30, 2022, the same day Stephen Breyer retired from the court.[1][2] President Joe Biden (D) announced he would nominate Jackson to fill Breyer's vacancy on the court on February 25.[3] Jackson was confirmed by the Senate in a 53-47 vote on April 7.[4] All 48 Senate Democrats voted to approve Jackson's confirmation, along with the two Independents who caucus with Democrats and Republican Sens. Susan Collins (R-Maine), Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska), and Mitt Romney (R-Utah). The 47 other Republicans in the chamber voted against the confirmation. All nominees to the court are subject to the advice and consent of the United States Senate. Judicial nominations from the president are referred to the Senate Judiciary Committee. At the time of Jackson's hearing, 22 senators sat on the committee, including 11 Republicans and 11 Democrats. The committee chairman was Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) and the ranking member was Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa). This page provides coverage related to Jackson's Senate confirmation. Confirmation overview The table below shows an overview of Jackson's Supreme Court confirmation process. Senate confirmation vote On April 7, the Senate voted 53-47 to confirm Jackson to the United States Supreme Court.[4] All 48 Democrats voted yea The two Independents who caucus with Democrats voted yea Sens. Susan Collins (R-Maine), Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska), and Mitt Romney (R-Utah) voted yea 47 Republicans voted nay Senate Judiciary Committee vote The table below shows how members of the Senate Judiciary Committee voted regarding the advancement of Jackson's nomination. The vote was 11-11 along party lines. Jackson could advance with a tied vote under an organizing resolution passed at the start of the 117th Congress.[6] Senate vote on motion to discharge the nomination Since Jackson's committee vote was tied, the full Senate needed to vote to advance the nomination. On April 4, the Senate voted 53-47 to approve the motion to discharge.[7] Confirmation hearing: fourth day (3/24/22) Witnesses supporting and opposing Jackson's confirmation spoke during the final day of hearings. Witnesses included the American Bar Association, five witnesses brought by Democrats, and five witnesses brought by Republicans. See below for a full list: American Bar Association Majority witnesses Rep. Joyce Beatty (D-Ohio) Risa Goluboff - Dean, Arnold H. Leon Professor of Law, and Professor of History at University of Virginia Wade Henderson - President & CEO, The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights Richard B. Rosenthal Frederick Thomas - National President, National Organization of Black Law Enforcement Executives (NOBLE) Rep. Joyce Beatty (D-Ohio) Risa Goluboff - Dean, Arnold H. Leon Professor of Law, and Professor of History at University of Virginia Wade Henderson - President & CEO, The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights Richard B. Rosenthal Frederick Thomas - National President, National Organization of Black Law Enforcement Executives (NOBLE) Minority witnesses Alabama Attorney General Steve Marshall Jennifer Mascott - Assistant Professor of Law & Co-Executive Director at the C. Boyden Gray Center for the Study of the Administrative State, Antonin Scalia Law School, George Mason University Eleanor McCullen Keisha Russell, First Liberty Alessandra Serano, Operation Underground Railroad Alabama Attorney General Steve Marshall Jennifer Mascott - Assistant Professor of Law & Co-Executive Director at the C. Boyden Gray Center for the Study of the Administrative State, Antonin Scalia Law School, George Mason University Eleanor McCullen Keisha Russell, First Liberty Alessandra Serano, Operation Underground Railroad Confirmation hearing: third day (3/23/22) The third day of Jackson's Senate confirmation hearings consisted of members of the judiciary committee questioning the judge, with each senator allotted 20 minutes. Topics in the questioning included Jackson's approach to sentencing, Jackson's recusal from Students for Fair Admissions, Inc. v. President & Fellows of Harvard, and the Supreme Court's use of emergency orders. Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) also announced the committee would vote on advancing Jackson's nomination on April 4.[8] The topics below were comprised from a number of analysis and summary articles. Jackson's approach to sentencing Sen. Thom Tillis (R-N.C.) asked Jackson about a specific opinion where she ruled against a coronavirus-related early release request. Tillis asked, "How can I not read this to say that perhaps they should be released irrespective of the crime for which they've been charged?" Jackson replied, saying "The question for courts, under the statute that Congress has enacted for compassionate release was whether COVID-19, a pandemic in the jail, was an extraordinary and compelling circumstance that should warrant release. What I said in that statement that you read was it would seem as though something like a deadly pandemic rampant in the jails would justify releasing everyone, but I go on to say in that very opinion Congress has indicated that we have to take each case individually, we have to look at the harm to the community that might be caused by the release of individual people."[9] Tillis later said, "If I take a look at your responses to some of my colleagues' questions and your statements to some of the defendants, it seems as though you're a very kind person and that there's at least a level of empathy that enters into your treatment of a defendant that some could view as maybe beyond what some of us would be comfortable with, with respect to administering justice." Jackson responded, saying "The statements that I made about my practices as a trial judge [.] were intended to explain how trial judges operate and how they impose sentences within the framework that Congress has provided. The statute that applies to us tells us to look at all the various factors that Congress has set forward, including the nature and circumstances of the offense, the history and characteristics of the defendant, and it tells us that we should be imposing a sentence sufficient but not greater than necessary to promote the purposes of punishment. Congress also tells us that one of the purposes of punishment is rehabilitation."[9][10] Jackson's recusal from Students for Fair Admissions, Inc. v. President & Fellows of Harvard Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) asked Jackson about Students for Fair Admissions, Inc. v. President & Fellows of Harvard, a case scheduled for argument before the Supreme Court during the court's October 2022-2023 term about Harvard University and the University of North Carolina admissions programs' use of race as a factor in admissions. Cruz asked, "You're on the board of overseers of Harvard. If you're confirmed, do you intend to recuse from this lawsuit?" Jackson said, "That is my plan."[11] Supreme Court's use of emergency orders Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) asked Jackson about the Supreme Court's use of unsigned orders, referencing an order the Court handed down that day overturning a redistricting decision from the Wisconsin Supreme Court. Klobuchar said, "Yesterday, you and I discussed the court's increasing reliance on issuing unsigned orders on its shadow docket. [.] While I'm not going to ask you about [the Supreme Court's order], because you couldn't possibly have read it, just your record of writing decisions that are thorough, and listening to litigants in cases. Could you just generally talk about the importance of having full briefings on the merits as well as public oral argument if you believe in transparency?"[12] Jackson responded, saying "The duty of a judge is to make determinations and under our system of adversarial proceedings you make determinations based on arguments and it's important to do so. I know, with respect to the emergency docket, you haven't asked me the question about it because I would say what I said before, which is I would benefit from being able to speak with the justices. I understand that there's a need to balance getting full briefing with emergency circumstances."[12] Confirmation hearing: second day (3/22/22) The second day of Jackson's Senate confirmation hearings consisted of members of the judiciary committee questioning the judge, with each senator allotted 30 minutes. Recurring themes in the questioning included abortion, Jackson's experience representing Guantanamo Bay detainees, LGBT issues, Jackson's sentencing record as a trial court judge, and Supreme Court expansion. The topics below were comprised from a number of analysis and summary articles. Abortion Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) asked, "Do you agree with Justice Kavanaugh that Roe v. Wade is settled as a precedent, and will you, like Justice Barrett, commit to obey all the rules of stare decisis in cases related to the issue of abortion?" Jackson replied, saying "I do agree with both Justice Kavanaugh and Justice Barrett on this issue. Roe and Casey are the settled law of the Supreme Court concerning the right to terminate a woman's pregnancy."[13] Feinstein went on to ask whether Roe was a super precedent, to which Jackson said "All Supreme Court cases are precedential, they're binding. And their principles and their rulings have to be followed. Roe and Casey, as you say, have been reaffirmed by the court, and have been relied upon, and reliance is one of the factors that the court considers when it seeks to revisit or is asked to revisit a precedent."[13] Sen. Marsha Blackburn (R-Tenn.) said, "The Supreme Court is reconsidering whether the constitution protects the right to an abortion in [Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization]. If you're confirmed, you will be in a position to apply the court's decision in Dobbs, whatever that decision is going to be, and you've talked about following precedent. Do you commit to respecting the court's decision if it rules that Roe was wrongly decided and that the issue of abortion should be sent back to the states?" Jackson replied, saying "Whatever the Supreme Court decides in Dobbs will be the precedent of the Supreme Court. It will be worthy of respect in the sense that it is the precedent, and I commit to treating it as I would any other precedent of the Supreme Court."[14] Jackson's experience representing Guantanamo Bay detainees Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas) and Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) both questioned Jackson regarding her experience representing Guantanamo Bay detainees. Specifically, the senators asked her about an amicus brief she filed before the Supreme Court on behalf clients including the Rutherford Institute, the Cato Institute, and The Constitution Project. Graham asked, "Do you believe that [.] America was acting as war criminals in holding these detainees?" Jackson said, "What I was doing in the context of the habeas petitions at this very early stage in the process was making allegations to preserve issues on behalf of my clients."[15] Sen. Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) asked about Jackson's defense of Guantanamo Bay detainees while working as a public defender. He asked, "What principles drove you to get involved with cases in such a difficult time with Guantanamo Bay?"[15] Jackson said she was assigned to the cases and, in response to a similar question from Sen. Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), that "After 9/11, there were also lawyers who recognized that our nation's values were under attack, that we couldn't let the terrorists win by changing who we were fundamentally. And what that meant was that the people who were being accused by our government of having engaged in actions related to this, under our Constitutional scheme, were entitled to representation."[16] LGBT issues Cornyn asked Jackson about Supreme Court rulings on same-sex marriage, saying "When the Supreme Court decides that something that is not even in the Constitution is a fundamental right and no state can pass any law that conflicts with the Supreme Court's edict, particularly in an area where people have sincerely held religious beliefs, doesn't that necessarily create a conflict between what people may believe as a matter of their religious doctrine or faith and what the federal government says is the law of the land?" Jackson responded, saying "That is the nature of a right. That when there is a right it means that there are limitations on regulation, even if people are regulating pursuant to their sincerely held religious beliefs."[17] Blackburn asked Jackson about transgender people participating in sports. Blackburn said, "Just last week an entire generation of young girls watched as our taxpayer-funded institutions permitted a biological man to compete and beat a biological woman in the NCAA swimming championships. What message do you think this sends to girls who aspire to compete and win in sports at the highest levels?" Jackson said, "I'm not sure what message that sends. If you're asking me about the legal issues related to it, those are topics that are being hotly discussed, as you say, and could come to the court."[18] Jackson's sentencing record as a trial court judge Several Republican senators, including Sens. Tom Cotton (R-Ark.), Ted Cruz (R-Texas), Josh Hawley (R-Mo.), and Mike Lee (R-Utah), questioned Jackson regarding past prison sentences she issued as a trial court judge in cases involving child pornography that were less than the federal sentencing guidelines' recommended ranges.[19] After describing the details of a specific case, Hawley said "The guidelines called for ten years, the prosecutor wanted at least two, you gave him three months." He then quoted from Jackson's ruling where she said "I don't feel that it's appropriate to increase the penalty on the basis of the number of images or pre-pubescent victims as the guidelines require because these circumstances exist in many cases, if not most, and don't signal an especially heinous or egregious child pornography offense." Hawley asked, "If its not heinous or egregious, how would you describe it?"[20] Jackson replied, saying "It is heinous. It is egregious. What a judge has to do is determine how to sentence defendants proportionately, consistent with the elements that the statutes include, [and] with the requirements that Congress has set forward. [.] The guidelines, as you pointed out, are being departed from even with respect to the government's recommendation. The government, in this case and in others, has asked for a sentence that is substantially less than the guideline penalty. So what I was discussing was that phenomenon." Jackson also said that sentences in these cases involve elements in addition to prison time, like restraints on computer use and proximity to children.[20] Supreme Court expansion Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) asked Jackson about her stance on adding additional members to the Supreme Court. He asked, "Do you agree with Justice Breyer and Justice Ginsburg that court-packing is a bad idea?" Jackson responded, saying "It is a policy question for Congress and I am particularly mindful of not speaking to policy issues because I am so committed to staying in my lane of the system. Because I am just not willing to speak to issues that are properly in the province of this body."[21] Confirmation hearing: first day (3/21/22) The first day of Jackson's Senate confirmation hearings began at 11:00 a.m. EST. Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) and ranking member Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) provided opening statements, followed by members of the Senate Judiciary Committee. Thomas Griffith, a former George W. Bush (R) appointee to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, and Lisa Fairfax, a professor of law at the University of Pennsylvania, offered introductory remarks. After the introductions, the day ended with Jackson's opening statement. Judiciary Committee member statements Click the links below to access the opening statements made by the members of the Senate Judiciary Committee. Statements were obtained from senators' websites and the media. Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) John Cornyn (R-Texas) Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.) Mike Lee (R-Utah) Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) Ted Cruz (R-Texas) Christopher Coons (D-Del.) Ben Sasse (R-Neb.) Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) Josh Hawley (R-Mo.) Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii) Tom Cotton (R-Ark.) Cory Booker (D-N.J.) John Kennedy (R-La.) Alex Padilla (D-Calif.) Thom Tillis (R-N.C.) Jon Ossoff (D-Ga.) Marsha Blackburn (R-Tenn.) Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) John Cornyn (R-Texas) Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.) Mike Lee (R-Utah) Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) Ted Cruz (R-Texas) Christopher Coons (D-Del.) Ben Sasse (R-Neb.) Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) Josh Hawley (R-Mo.) Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii) Tom Cotton (R-Ark.) Cory Booker (D-N.J.) John Kennedy (R-La.) Alex Padilla (D-Calif.) Thom Tillis (R-N.C.) Jon Ossoff (D-Ga.) Marsha Blackburn (R-Tenn.) Ketanji Brown Jackson opening statement The video below shows Jackson's opening statement. Click here for a transcript of her speech. "U.S. Supreme Court Nominee Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson Opening Statement" March 21, 2022 Past confirmation votes Before Jackson's nomination to the Supreme Court, she had received three confirmation votes in the Senate for other positions. Her confirmations to the U.S. Sentencing Commission in 2010 and to the United States District Court for the District of Columbia in 2013 were approved by voice vote.[22][23] In 2021, Biden appointed Jackson to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. The Senate confirmed her in a 53-44 vote.[24] Expand the table below to see the roll call vote. Judiciary Committee questionnaire The Senate Judiciary Committee released Jackson's nominee questionnaire on March 1, 2022.[25] Supreme Court vacancy, 2022 Process to fill the vacated seat of Justice Stephen Breyer Amy Coney Barrett confirmation hearings Brett Kavanaugh confirmation hearings Neil Gorsuch confirmation hearings Supreme Court of the United States ↑ The Hill, "Justice Breyer set to retire from Supreme Court on Thursday," June 29, 2022 ↑ The Washington Post, "Jackson to take Supreme Court oath Thurs., minutes after Breyer retires," June 29, 2022 ↑ White House, "President Biden Nominates Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson to Serve as Associate Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court," February 25, 2022 ↑ 4.0 4.1 Congress.gov, "PN1783 — Ketanji Brown Jackson — Supreme Court of the United States," accessed April 7, 2022 ↑ Since Jackson received a tied vote in committee, the full Senate voted on whether to advance her nomination to a confirmation vote. ↑ SCOTUSblog, "Jackson’s nomination hearings will begin March 21. Here’s what to expect.," March 3, 2022 ↑ Congress.gov, "PN1783 — Ketanji Brown Jackson — Supreme Court of the United States," accessed April 5, 2022 ↑ The Hill, "Senate panel to hold Supreme Court vote April 4," March 23, 2022 ↑ 9.0 9.1 YouTube, "WATCH: Sen. Thom Tillis argues against court packing in Supreme Court confirmation hearings," March 23, 2022 ↑ SCOTUSblog, "The Jackson hearings: Key moments from Day 3," March 24, 2022 ↑ YouTube, "WATCH: Jackson says she would recuse herself from Harvard case before Supreme Court," March 23, 2022 ↑ 12.0 12.1 YouTube, "WATCH: Sen. Klobuchar questions Jackson in Supreme Court confirmation hearings," March 23, 2022 ↑ 13.0 13.1 ABC News, "Jackson on abortion cases: 'Roe and Casey are the settled law'," March 22, 2022 ↑ YouTube, "WATCH: Sen. Marsha Blackburn presses Ketanji Brown Jackson about Roe v. Wade," March 22, 2022 ↑ 15.0 15.1 PBS News Hour, "WATCH: Supreme Court nominee Ketanji Brown Jackson defends work as an attorney for Guantanamo Bay prisoners," March 22, 2022 ↑ ABC News, "Jackson discusses representing Gitmo detainees," March 22, 2022 ↑ ABC News, "Cornyn questions Jackson on same-sex marriage," March 22, 2022 ↑ Politico, "Blackburn to Jackson: Can you define ‘the word woman’?" March 22, 2022 ↑ SCOTUSblog, "On second day of hearings, Jackson responds to Republican critiques on criminal sentencing," March 23, 2022 ↑ 20.0 20.1 YouTube, "WATCH: Sen. Josh Hawley questions Jackson in Supreme Court confirmation hearings," March 22, 2022 ↑ YouTube, "WATCH: Sen. Chuck Grassley questions Jackson in Supreme Court confirmation hearings," March 22, 2022 ↑ Congress.gov, "PN18 — Ketanji Brown Jackson — The Judiciary," accessed March 16, 2022 ↑ Congress.gov, "PN802 — Ketanji Brown Jackson — United States Sentencing Commission," accessed March 16, 2022 ↑ Congress.gov, "PN391 — Ketanji Brown Jackson — The Judiciary," accessed March 16, 2022 ↑ CNN, "New Senate questionnaire details Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson's White House contacts during nomination process," March 1, 2022 ↑ The Hill, "Justice Breyer set to retire from Supreme Court on Thursday," June 29, 2022 ↑ The Washington Post, "Jackson to take Supreme Court oath Thurs., minutes after Breyer retires," June 29, 2022 ↑ White House, "President Biden Nominates Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson to Serve as Associate Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court," February 25, 2022 ↑ 4.0 4.1 Congress.gov, "PN1783 — Ketanji Brown Jackson — Supreme Court of the United States," accessed April 7, 2022 ↑ Since Jackson received a tied vote in committee, the full Senate voted on whether to advance her nomination to a confirmation vote. ↑ SCOTUSblog, "Jackson’s nomination hearings will begin March 21. Here’s what to expect.," March 3, 2022 ↑ Congress.gov, "PN1783 — Ketanji Brown Jackson — Supreme Court of the United States," accessed April 5, 2022 ↑ The Hill, "Senate panel to hold Supreme Court vote April 4," March 23, 2022 ↑ 9.0 9.1 YouTube, "WATCH: Sen. Thom Tillis argues against court packing in Supreme Court confirmation hearings," March 23, 2022 ↑ SCOTUSblog, "The Jackson hearings: Key moments from Day 3," March 24, 2022 ↑ YouTube, "WATCH: Jackson says she would recuse herself from Harvard case before Supreme Court," March 23, 2022 ↑ 12.0 12.1 YouTube, "WATCH: Sen. Klobuchar questions Jackson in Supreme Court confirmation hearings," March 23, 2022 ↑ 13.0 13.1 ABC News, "Jackson on abortion cases: 'Roe and Casey are the settled law'," March 22, 2022 ↑ YouTube, "WATCH: Sen. Marsha Blackburn presses Ketanji Brown Jackson about Roe v. Wade," March 22, 2022 ↑ 15.0 15.1 PBS News Hour, "WATCH: Supreme Court nominee Ketanji Brown Jackson defends work as an attorney for Guantanamo Bay prisoners," March 22, 2022 ↑ ABC News, "Jackson discusses representing Gitmo detainees," March 22, 2022 ↑ ABC News, "Cornyn questions Jackson on same-sex marriage," March 22, 2022 ↑ Politico, "Blackburn to Jackson: Can you define ‘the word woman’?" March 22, 2022 ↑ SCOTUSblog, "On second day of hearings, Jackson responds to Republican critiques on criminal sentencing," March 23, 2022 ↑ 20.0 20.1 YouTube, "WATCH: Sen. Josh Hawley questions Jackson in Supreme Court confirmation hearings," March 22, 2022 ↑ YouTube, "WATCH: Sen. Chuck Grassley questions Jackson in Supreme Court confirmation hearings," March 22, 2022 ↑ Congress.gov, "PN18 — Ketanji Brown Jackson — The Judiciary," accessed March 16, 2022 ↑ Congress.gov, "PN802 — Ketanji Brown Jackson — United States Sentencing Commission," accessed March 16, 2022 ↑ Congress.gov, "PN391 — Ketanji Brown Jackson — The Judiciary," accessed March 16, 2022 ↑ CNN, "New Senate questionnaire details Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson's White House contacts during nomination process," March 1, 2022 ↑ The Hill, "Justice Breyer set to retire from Supreme Court on Thursday," June 29, 2022 ↑ The Washington Post, "Jackson to take Supreme Court oath Thurs., minutes after Breyer retires," June 29, 2022 ↑ White House, "President Biden Nominates Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson to Serve as Associate Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court," February 25, 2022 ↑ 4.0 4.1 Congress.gov, "PN1783 — Ketanji Brown Jackson — Supreme Court of the United States," accessed April 7, 2022 ↑ Since Jackson received a tied vote in committee, the full Senate voted on whether to advance her nomination to a confirmation vote. ↑ SCOTUSblog, "Jackson’s nomination hearings will begin March 21. Here’s what to expect.," March 3, 2022 ↑ Congress.gov, "PN1783 — Ketanji Brown Jackson — Supreme Court of the United States," accessed April 5, 2022 ↑ The Hill, "Senate panel to hold Supreme Court vote April 4," March 23, 2022 ↑ 9.0 9.1 YouTube, "WATCH: Sen. Thom Tillis argues against court packing in Supreme Court confirmation hearings," March 23, 2022 ↑ SCOTUSblog, "The Jackson hearings: Key moments from Day 3," March 24, 2022 ↑ YouTube, "WATCH: Jackson says she would recuse herself from Harvard case before Supreme Court," March 23, 2022 ↑ 12.0 12.1 YouTube, "WATCH: Sen. Klobuchar questions Jackson in Supreme Court confirmation hearings," March 23, 2022 ↑ 13.0 13.1 ABC News, "Jackson on abortion cases: 'Roe and Casey are the settled law'," March 22, 2022 ↑ YouTube, "WATCH: Sen. Marsha Blackburn presses Ketanji Brown Jackson about Roe v. Wade," March 22, 2022 ↑ 15.0 15.1 PBS News Hour, "WATCH: Supreme Court nominee Ketanji Brown Jackson defends work as an attorney for Guantanamo Bay prisoners," March 22, 2022 ↑ ABC News, "Jackson discusses representing Gitmo detainees," March 22, 2022 ↑ ABC News, "Cornyn questions Jackson on same-sex marriage," March 22, 2022 ↑ Politico, "Blackburn to Jackson: Can you define ‘the word woman’?" March 22, 2022 ↑ SCOTUSblog, "On second day of hearings, Jackson responds to Republican critiques on criminal sentencing," March 23, 2022 ↑ 20.0 20.1 YouTube, "WATCH: Sen. Josh Hawley questions Jackson in Supreme Court confirmation hearings," March 22, 2022 ↑ YouTube, "WATCH: Sen. Chuck Grassley questions Jackson in Supreme Court confirmation hearings," March 22, 2022 ↑ Congress.gov, "PN18 — Ketanji Brown Jackson — The Judiciary," accessed March 16, 2022 ↑ Congress.gov, "PN802 — Ketanji Brown Jackson — United States Sentencing Commission," accessed March 16, 2022 ↑ Congress.gov, "PN391 — Ketanji Brown Jackson — The Judiciary," accessed March 16, 2022 ↑ CNN, "New Senate questionnaire details Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson's White House contacts during nomination process," March 1, 2022 ↑ The Hill, "Justice Breyer set to retire from Supreme Court on Thursday," June 29, 2022 ↑ The Washington Post, "Jackson to take Supreme Court oath Thurs., minutes after Breyer retires," June 29, 2022 ↑ White House, "President Biden Nominates Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson to Serve as Associate Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court," February 25, 2022 ↑ 4.0 4.1 Congress.gov, "PN1783 — Ketanji Brown Jackson — Supreme Court of the United States," accessed April 7, 2022 ↑ Since Jackson received a tied vote in committee, the full Senate voted on whether to advance her nomination to a confirmation vote. ↑ SCOTUSblog, "Jackson’s nomination hearings will begin March 21. Here’s what to expect.," March 3, 2022 ↑ Congress.gov, "PN1783 — Ketanji Brown Jackson — Supreme Court of the United States," accessed April 5, 2022 ↑ The Hill, "Senate panel to hold Supreme Court vote April 4," March 23, 2022 ↑ 9.0 9.1 YouTube, "WATCH: Sen. Thom Tillis argues against court packing in Supreme Court confirmation hearings," March 23, 2022 ↑ SCOTUSblog, "The Jackson hearings: Key moments from Day 3," March 24, 2022 ↑ YouTube, "WATCH: Jackson says she would recuse herself from Harvard case before Supreme Court," March 23, 2022 ↑ 12.0 12.1 YouTube, "WATCH: Sen. Klobuchar questions Jackson in Supreme Court confirmation hearings," March 23, 2022 ↑ 13.0 13.1 ABC News, "Jackson on abortion cases: 'Roe and Casey are the settled law'," March 22, 2022 ↑ YouTube, "WATCH: Sen. Marsha Blackburn presses Ketanji Brown Jackson about Roe v. Wade," March 22, 2022 ↑ 15.0 15.1 PBS News Hour, "WATCH: Supreme Court nominee Ketanji Brown Jackson defends work as an attorney for Guantanamo Bay prisoners," March 22, 2022 ↑ ABC News, "Jackson discusses representing Gitmo detainees," March 22, 2022 ↑ ABC News, "Cornyn questions Jackson on same-sex marriage," March 22, 2022 ↑ Politico, "Blackburn to Jackson: Can you define ‘the word woman’?" March 22, 2022 ↑ SCOTUSblog, "On second day of hearings, Jackson responds to Republican critiques on criminal sentencing," March 23, 2022 ↑ 20.0 20.1 YouTube, "WATCH: Sen. Josh Hawley questions Jackson in Supreme Court confirmation hearings," March 22, 2022 ↑ YouTube, "WATCH: Sen. Chuck Grassley questions Jackson in Supreme Court confirmation hearings," March 22, 2022 ↑ Congress.gov, "PN18 — Ketanji Brown Jackson — The Judiciary," accessed March 16, 2022 ↑ Congress.gov, "PN802 — Ketanji Brown Jackson — United States Sentencing Commission," accessed March 16, 2022 ↑ Congress.gov, "PN391 — Ketanji Brown Jackson — The Judiciary," accessed March 16, 2022 ↑ CNN, "New Senate questionnaire details Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson's White House contacts during nomination process," March 1, 2022 BallotpediaAboutOverview • What people are saying • Support Ballotpedia • Contact • Contribute • Job opportunitiesExecutive: Leslie Graves, Founder and CEO • Gwen Beattie, Chief Operating Officer Communications: Alison Graves, Director of Communications • Carley Allensworth • Abigail Campbell • Frank Festa • Sarah Groat • Nathaniel Harwood • Dillon Redmond • Erica Shumaker External Relations: Geoff Pallay, Director of External Relations • Ken Carbullido, Vice President of Election Product and Technology Strategy • Ashley Fleming • Thomas Mardik • Hannah Nelson Operations: Meghann Olshefski, Director of Operations • Amanda Herbert • Mandy Morris • Caroline Presnell • Kelly Rindfleisch Tech: Matt Latourelle, Director of Technology Operations • Ryan Burch • Kirsten Corrao • Beth Dellea • Travis Eden • Tate Kamish • Margaret Kearney • Eric Lotto • Joseph Sanchez • Mary Susmitha Contributors: Scott Rasmussen Editorial ContentJosh Altic, Director of Content • Daniel Anderson, Associate Director of Elections & Data • Cory Eucalitto, Associate Director of Features • Ryan Byrne, Managing Editor of Ballot Measures • Mandy McConnell, Managing Editor of News • Doug Kronaizl, Managing Editor of Local Expansion • Abbey Smith, Managing Editor of Elections • Janie Valentine, Managing Editor of Law • Joel Williams. Managing Editor of Events • Andrew Bahl • Jaclyn Beran • Marielle Bricker • Joseph Brusgard • Emma Burlingame • Kelly Coyle • Jon Dunn • Thomas Ellis • Nicole Fisher • Joseph Greaney • Thomas Grobben • Brianna Hosea • Molly Kehoe • Tyler King • Glorie Martinez • Norm Leahy, Senior Editor • Nathan Maxwell • Jimmy McAllister • Brandon McCauley • Ellie Mikus • Ellen Morrissey • Mackenzie Murphy • Kaley Platek • Samantha Post • Adam Powell • Annelise Reinwald • Ethan Rice • Spencer Richardson • Victoria Rose • Briana Ryan • Myj Saintyl • Maddy Salucka • Emma Soukup • Alexis Thacker • Mina Vogel • Samuel Wonacott • Trenton Woodcox Ballotpedia Ballotpedia Ballotpedia AboutOverview • What people are saying • Support Ballotpedia • Contact • Contribute • Job opportunitiesExecutive: Leslie Graves, Founder and CEO • Gwen Beattie, Chief Operating Officer Communications: Alison Graves, Director of Communications • Carley Allensworth • Abigail Campbell • Frank Festa • Sarah Groat • Nathaniel Harwood • Dillon Redmond • Erica Shumaker External Relations: Geoff Pallay, Director of External Relations • Ken Carbullido, Vice President of Election Product and Technology Strategy • Ashley Fleming • Thomas Mardik • Hannah Nelson Operations: Meghann Olshefski, Director of Operations • Amanda Herbert • Mandy Morris • Caroline Presnell • Kelly Rindfleisch Tech: Matt Latourelle, Director of Technology Operations • Ryan Burch • Kirsten Corrao • Beth Dellea • Travis Eden • Tate Kamish • Margaret Kearney • Eric Lotto • Joseph Sanchez • Mary Susmitha Contributors: Scott Rasmussen Editorial ContentJosh Altic, Director of Content • Daniel Anderson, Associate Director of Elections & Data • Cory Eucalitto, Associate Director of Features • Ryan Byrne, Managing Editor of Ballot Measures • Mandy McConnell, Managing Editor of News • Doug Kronaizl, Managing Editor of Local Expansion • Abbey Smith, Managing Editor of Elections • Janie Valentine, Managing Editor of Law • Joel Williams. Managing Editor of Events • Andrew Bahl • Jaclyn Beran • Marielle Bricker • Joseph Brusgard • Emma Burlingame • Kelly Coyle • Jon Dunn • Thomas Ellis • Nicole Fisher • Joseph Greaney • Thomas Grobben • Brianna Hosea • Molly Kehoe • Tyler King • Glorie Martinez • Norm Leahy, Senior Editor • Nathan Maxwell • Jimmy McAllister • Brandon McCauley • Ellie Mikus • Ellen Morrissey • Mackenzie Murphy • Kaley Platek • Samantha Post • Adam Powell • Annelise Reinwald • Ethan Rice • Spencer Richardson • Victoria Rose • Briana Ryan • Myj Saintyl • Maddy Salucka • Emma Soukup • Alexis Thacker • Mina Vogel • Samuel Wonacott • Trenton Woodcox AboutOverview • What people are saying • Support Ballotpedia • Contact • Contribute • Job opportunities Overview • What people are saying • Support Ballotpedia • Contact • Contribute • Job opportunities Executive: Leslie Graves, Founder and CEO • Gwen Beattie, Chief Operating Officer Communications: Alison Graves, Director of Communications • Carley Allensworth • Abigail Campbell • Frank Festa • Sarah Groat • Nathaniel Harwood • Dillon Redmond • Erica Shumaker External Relations: Geoff Pallay, Director of External Relations • Ken Carbullido, Vice President of Election Product and Technology Strategy • Ashley Fleming • Thomas Mardik • Hannah Nelson Operations: Meghann Olshefski, Director of Operations • Amanda Herbert • Mandy Morris • Caroline Presnell • Kelly Rindfleisch Tech: Matt Latourelle, Director of Technology Operations • Ryan Burch • Kirsten Corrao • Beth Dellea • Travis Eden • Tate Kamish • Margaret Kearney • Eric Lotto • Joseph Sanchez • Mary Susmitha Contributors: Scott Rasmussen Executive: Leslie Graves, Founder and CEO • Gwen Beattie, Chief Operating Officer Communications: Alison Graves, Director of Communications • Carley Allensworth • Abigail Campbell • Frank Festa • Sarah Groat • Nathaniel Harwood • Dillon Redmond • Erica Shumaker External Relations: Geoff Pallay, Director of External Relations • Ken Carbullido, Vice President of Election Product and Technology Strategy • Ashley Fleming • Thomas Mardik • Hannah Nelson Operations: Meghann Olshefski, Director of Operations • Amanda Herbert • Mandy Morris • Caroline Presnell • Kelly Rindfleisch Tech: Matt Latourelle, Director of Technology Operations • Ryan Burch • Kirsten Corrao • Beth Dellea • Travis Eden • Tate Kamish • Margaret Kearney • Eric Lotto • Joseph Sanchez • Mary Susmitha Contributors: Scott Rasmussen Communications: Alison Graves, Director of Communications • Carley Allensworth • Abigail Campbell • Frank Festa • Sarah Groat • Nathaniel Harwood • Dillon Redmond • Erica Shumaker External Relations: Geoff Pallay, Director of External Relations • Ken Carbullido, Vice President of Election Product and Technology Strategy • Ashley Fleming • Thomas Mardik • Hannah Nelson Operations: Meghann Olshefski, Director of Operations • Amanda Herbert • Mandy Morris • Caroline Presnell • Kelly Rindfleisch Tech: Matt Latourelle, Director of Technology Operations • Ryan Burch • Kirsten Corrao • Beth Dellea • Travis Eden • Tate Kamish • Margaret Kearney • Eric Lotto • Joseph Sanchez • Mary Susmitha Editorial ContentJosh Altic, Director of Content • Daniel Anderson, Associate Director of Elections & Data • Cory Eucalitto, Associate Director of Features • Ryan Byrne, Managing Editor of Ballot Measures • Mandy McConnell, Managing Editor of News • Doug Kronaizl, Managing Editor of Local Expansion • Abbey Smith, Managing Editor of Elections • Janie Valentine, Managing Editor of Law • Joel Williams. Managing Editor of Events • Andrew Bahl • Jaclyn Beran • Marielle Bricker • Joseph Brusgard • Emma Burlingame • Kelly Coyle • Jon Dunn • Thomas Ellis • Nicole Fisher • Joseph Greaney • Thomas Grobben • Brianna Hosea • Molly Kehoe • Tyler King • Glorie Martinez • Norm Leahy, Senior Editor • Nathan Maxwell • Jimmy McAllister • Brandon McCauley • Ellie Mikus • Ellen Morrissey • Mackenzie Murphy • Kaley Platek • Samantha Post • Adam Powell • Annelise Reinwald • Ethan Rice • Spencer Richardson • Victoria Rose • Briana Ryan • Myj Saintyl • Maddy Salucka • Emma Soukup • Alexis Thacker • Mina Vogel • Samuel Wonacott • Trenton Woodcox Editorial Content Josh Altic, Director of Content • Daniel Anderson, Associate Director of Elections & Data • Cory Eucalitto, Associate Director of Features • Ryan Byrne, Managing Editor of Ballot Measures • Mandy McConnell, Managing Editor of News • Doug Kronaizl, Managing Editor of Local Expansion • Abbey Smith, Managing Editor of Elections • Janie Valentine, Managing Editor of Law • Joel Williams. Managing Editor of Events • Andrew Bahl • Jaclyn Beran • Marielle Bricker • Joseph Brusgard • Emma Burlingame • Kelly Coyle • Jon Dunn • Thomas Ellis • Nicole Fisher • Joseph Greaney • Thomas Grobben • Brianna Hosea • Molly Kehoe • Tyler King • Glorie Martinez • Norm Leahy, Senior Editor • Nathan Maxwell • Jimmy McAllister • Brandon McCauley • Ellie Mikus • Ellen Morrissey • Mackenzie Murphy • Kaley Platek • Samantha Post • Adam Powell • Annelise Reinwald • Ethan Rice • Spencer Richardson • Victoria Rose • Briana Ryan • Myj Saintyl • Maddy Salucka • Emma Soukup • Alexis Thacker • Mina Vogel • Samuel Wonacott • Trenton Woodcox Retrieved from "https://ballotpedia.org/wiki/index.php?title=Ketanji_Brown_Jackson_confirmation_hearings_and_votes&oldid=10278966" Category: SCOTUS vacancy: Confirmation hearings Category: SCOTUS vacancy: Confirmation hearings Category: SCOTUS vacancy: Confirmation hearings SCOTUS vacancy: Confirmation hearings