Source: https://constantinenache.wordpress.com/page/13/
Title: constantinenache/dans contemporan si teatru-dans japonez Butoh – Pagina 13
Words: 77240

================================================================================

Samuel Barclay Beckett (13 April 1906 – 22 December 1989) was an Irish avant-garde novelist, playwright, theatre director, and poet, who lived in Paris for most of his adult life and wrote in both English and French. He is widely regarded as among the most influential writers of the 20th century. Beckett’s work offers a bleak, tragicomic outlook on human existence, often coupled with black comedy and gallows humour, and became increasingly minimalist in his later career. He is considered one of the last modernist writers, and one of the key figures in what Martin Esslin called the „Theatre of the Absurd”. Beckett was awarded the 1969 Nobel Prize in Literature „for his writing, which—in new forms for the novel and drama—in the destitution of modern man acquires its elevation.” He was elected Saoi of Aosdána in 1984. Early life and education The Becketts were members of the Anglican Church of Ireland. The family home, Cooldrinagh in the Dublin suburb of Foxrock, was a large house and garden complete with tennis court built in 1903 by Samuel’s father, William. The house and garden, together with the surrounding countryside where he often went walking with his father, the nearby Leopardstown Racecourse, the Foxrock railway station and Harcourt Street station at the city terminus of the line, all feature in his prose and plays. Samuel Beckett was born on Good Friday, 13 April 1906, to William Frank Beckett, a quantity surveyor and descendant of the Huguenots, and Maria Jones Roe, a nurse, when both were 35.They had married in 1901. Beckett had one older brother, Frank Edward Beckett (born 1902). At the age of five, Beckett attended a local playschool, where he started to learn music, and then moved to Earlsfort House School in the city centre near Harcourt Street. In 1919, Beckett went to Portora Royal School in Enniskillen, County Fermanagh (which Oscar Wilde had also attended). A natural athlete, Beckett excelled at cricket as a left-handed batsman and a left-arm medium-pace bowler. Later, he was to play for Dublin University and played two first-class games against Northamptonshire. As a result, he became the only Nobel literature laureate to have played first class cricket. Early writings Beckett studied French, Italian, and English at Trinity College, Dublin from 1923 to 1927 (one of his tutors was the eminent Berkeley scholar A. A. Luce). He was elected a Scholar in Modern Languages in 1926. Beckett graduated with a BA and, after teaching briefly at Campbell College in Belfast, took up the post of lecteur d’anglais at the École Normale Supérieure in Paris from November 1928 to 1930. While there, he was introduced to renowned Irish author James Joyce by Thomas MacGreevy, a poet and close confidant of Beckett who also worked there. This meeting had a profound effect on the young man. Beckett assisted Joyce in various ways, one of which was research towards the book that became Finnegans Wake. In 1929, Beckett published his first work, a critical essay entitled „Dante… Bruno. Vico.. Joyce”. The essay defends Joyce’s work and method, chiefly from allegations of wanton obscurity and dimness, and was Beckett’s contribution to Our Exagmination Round His Factification for Incamination of Work in Progress (a book of essays on Joyce which also included contributions by Eugene Jolas, Robert McAlmon, and William Carlos Williams). Beckett’s close relationship with Joyce and his family cooled, however, when he rejected the advances of Joyce’s daughter Lucia owing to her progressing schizophrenia. Beckett’s first short story, „Assumption”, was published in Jolas’s periodical transition. The next year he won a small literary prize for his hastily composed poem „Whoroscope”, which draws on a biography of René Descartes that Beckett happened to be reading when he was encouraged to submit. In 1930, Beckett returned to Trinity College as a lecturer. In November 1930, he presented a paper in French to the Modern Languages Society of Trinity on the Toulouse poet Jean du Chas, founder of a movement called le Concentrisme. It was a literary parody, for Beckett had in fact invented the poet and his movement that claimed to be „at odds with all that is clear and distinct in Descartes.” Beckett later insisted that he had not intended to fool his audience. When Beckett resigned from Trinity at the end of 1931, his brief academic career was at an end. He commemorated it with the poem „Gnome”, which was inspired by his reading of Johann Wolfgang Goethe’s Wilhelm Meister’s Apprenticeship and eventually published in The Dublin Magazine in 1934: Spend the years of learning squandering Courage for the years of wandering Through a world politely turning From the loutishness of learning Beckett travelled in Europe. He spent some time in London, where in 1931 he published Proust, his critical study of French author Marcel Proust. Two years later, following his father’s death, he began two years’ treatment with Tavistock Clinic psychoanalyst Dr. Wilfred Bion. Aspects of it became evident in Beckett’s later works, such as Watt and Waiting for Godot. In 1932, he wrote his first novel, Dream of Fair to Middling Women, but after many rejections from publishers decided to abandon it (it was eventually published in 1992). Despite his inability to get it published, however, the novel served as a source for many of Beckett’s early poems, as well as for his first full-length book, the 1933 short-story collection More Pricks Than Kicks. Beckett published essays and reviews, including „Recent Irish Poetry” (in The Bookman, August 1934) and „Humanistic Quietism”, a review of his friend Thomas MacGreevy’s Poems (in The Dublin Magazine, July–September 1934). They focused on the work of MacGreevy, Brian Coffey, Denis Devlin and Blanaid Salkeld, despite their slender achievements at the time, comparing them favourably with their Celtic Revival contemporaries and invoking Ezra Pound, T. S. Eliot, and the French symbolists as their precursors. In describing these poets as forming „the nucleus of a living poetic in Ireland”, Beckett was tracing the outlines of an Irish poetic modernist canon. In 1935—the year that Beckett successfully published a book of his poetry, Echo’s Bones and Other Precipitates—Beckett worked on his novel Murphy. In May, he wrote to MacGreevy that he had been reading about film and wished to go to Moscow to study with Sergei Eisenstein at the Gerasimov Institute of Cinematography in Moscow. In mid-1936 he wrote to Eisenstein and Vsevolod Pudovkin to offer himself as their apprentices. Nothing came of this, however, as Beckett’s letter was lost owing to Eisenstein’s quarantine during the smallpox outbreak, as well as his focus on a script re-write of his postponed film production. In 1936, a friend had suggested him to look up the works of Arnold Geulincx, which Beckett did and he took many notes. The philosopher’s name is mentioned in Murphy and the reading apparently left a strong impression. Murphy was finished in 1936 and Beckett departed for extensive travel around Germany, during which time he filled several notebooks with lists of noteworthy artwork that he had seen and noted his distaste for the Nazi savagery that was overtaking the country. Returning to Ireland briefly in 1937, he oversaw the publication of Murphy (1938), which he translated into French the following year. He fell out with his mother, which contributed to his decision to settle permanently in Paris. Beckett remained in Paris following the outbreak of World War II in 1939, preferring, in his own words, „France at war to Ireland at peace”. His was soon a known face in and around Left Bank cafés, where he strengthened his allegiance with Joyce and forged new ones with artists Alberto Giacometti and Marcel Duchamp, with whom he regularly played chess. Sometime around December 1937, Beckett had a brief affair with Peggy Guggenheim, who nicknamed him „Oblomov” (after the character in Ivan Goncharov’s novel). In January 1938 in Paris, Beckett was stabbed in the chest and nearly killed when he refused the solicitations of a notorious pimp (who went by the name of Prudent). Joyce arranged a private room for Beckett at the hospital. The publicity surrounding the stabbing attracted the attention of Suzanne Dechevaux-Dumesnil, who previously knew Beckett slightly from his first stay in Paris. This time, however, the two would begin a lifelong companionship. At a preliminary hearing, Beckett asked his attacker for the motive behind the stabbing. Prudent replied: „Je ne sais pas, Monsieur. Je m’excuse” [„I do not know, sir. I’m sorry”]. Beckett eventually dropped the charges against his attacker—partially to avoid further formalities, partly because he found Prudent likeable and well-mannered. World War II and French Resistance After the Nazi German occupation of France in 1940, Beckett joined the French Resistance, in which he worked as a courier. On several occasions over the next two years he was nearly caught by the Gestapo. In August 1942, his unit was betrayed and he and Suzanne fled south on foot to the safety of the small village of Roussillon, in the Vaucluse département in Provence-Alpes-Côte d’Azur. There he continued to assist the Resistance by storing armaments in the back yard of his home. During the two years that Beckett stayed in Roussillon he indirectly helped the Maquis sabotage the German army in the Vaucluse mountains, though he rarely spoke about his wartime work in later life. Beckett was awarded the Croix de guerre and the Médaille de la Résistance by the French government for his efforts in fighting the German occupation; to the end of his life, however, Beckett would refer to his work with the French Resistance as „boy scout stuff”.While in hiding in Roussillon, he continued work on the novel Watt (begun in 1941 and completed in 1945, but not published until 1953, though an extract had appeared in the Dublin literary periodical Envoy). Fame: novels and the theatre In 1945, Beckett returned to Dublin for a brief visit. During his stay, he had a revelation in his mother’s room: his entire future direction in literature appeared to him. Beckett had felt that he would remain forever in the shadow of Joyce, certain to never best him at his own game. His revelation prompted him to change direction and to acknowledge both his own stupidity and his interest in ignorance and impotence: „I realized that Joyce had gone as far as one could in the direction of knowing more, [being] in control of one’s material. He was always adding to it; you only have to look at his proofs to see that. I realized that my own way was in impoverishment, in lack of knowledge and in taking away, in subtracting rather than in adding.” Knowlson argues that „Beckett was rejecting the Joycean principle that knowing more was a way of creatively understanding the world and controlling it … In future, his work would focus on poverty, failure, exile and loss – as he put it, on man as a ‘non-knower’ and as a ‘non-can-er.'” The revelation „has rightly been regarded as a pivotal moment in his entire career.” Beckett fictionalised the experience in his play Krapp’s Last Tape (1958). While listening to a tape he made earlier in his life, Krapp hears his younger self say „clear to me at last that the dark I have always struggled to keep under is in reality my most…”, at which point Krapp fast-forwards the tape (before the audience can hear the complete revelation). Beckett later explained to Knowlson that the missing words on the tape are „precious ally.” In 1946, Jean-Paul Sartre’s magazine Les Temps modernes published the first part of Beckett’s short story „Suite” (later to be called „La Fin”, or „The End”), not realizing that Beckett had only submitted the first half of the story; Simone de Beauvoir refused to publish the second part. Beckett also began to write his fourth novel, Mercier et Camier, which was not published until 1970. The novel presaged his most famous work, the play Waiting for Godot, which was written not long afterwards. More importantly, the novel was Beckett’s first long work that he wrote in French, the language of most of his subsequent works which were strongly supported by Jérôme Lindon director of his parisian publishing house Les Éditions de Minuit, including the poioumenon „trilogy” of novels: Molloy (1951); Malone meurt (1951), Malone Dies (1958); L’innommable (1953), The Unnamable, (1960). Despite being a native English speaker, Beckett wrote in French because—as he himself claimed—it was easier for him thus to write „without style.” Beckett is most famous for his play En attendant Godot (1953) (Waiting for Godot). In a much-quoted article, the critic Vivian Mercier wrote that Beckett „has achieved a theoretical impossibility—a play in which nothing happens, that yet keeps audiences glued to their seats. What’s more, since the second act is a subtly different reprise of the first, he has written a play in which nothing happens, twice.” Like most of his works after 1947, the play was first written in French with the title En attendant Godot. Beckett worked on the play between October 1948 and January 1949. He published it in 1952 and it premièred in 1953; an English translation appeared two years later. Directed by Roger Blin, the play was a critical, popular, and controversial success in Paris. It opened in London in 1955 to mainly negative reviews, but the tide turned with positive reactions from Harold Hobson in The Sunday Times and, later, Kenneth Tynan. In the United States, it flopped in Miami and had a qualified success in New York City. After this, the play became extremely popular, with highly successful performances in the US and Germany. It is frequently performed today. Beckett translated all of his works into English himself, with the exception of Molloy, for which he collaborated with Patrick Bowles. The success of Waiting for Godot opened up a career in theatre for its author. Beckett went on to write successful full-length plays, including Fin de partie (Endgame) (1957), Krapp’s Last Tape (1958, written in English), Happy Days (1961, also written in English), and Play (1963). In 1961, Beckett received the International Publishers’ Formentor Prize in recognition of his work, which he shared that year with Jorge Luis Borges. Later life and death The 1960s was a period of change for Beckett, both on a personal level and as a writer. In 1961, he married Suzanne in a secret civil ceremony in England (its secrecy due to reasons relating to French inheritance law). The success of his plays led to invitations to attend rehearsals and productions around the world, leading eventually to a new career as a theatre director. In 1956, he had his first commission from the BBC Third Programme for a radio play, All That Fall. He continued writing sporadically for radio and extended his scope to include cinema and television. He began to write in English again, although he also wrote in French until the end of his life. Beckett bought some land in 1953 near a hamlet around forty miles northeast of Paris and built a cottage for himself with the help of some locals. One of the locals that helped him build the cottage was a Bulgarian-born farmer named Boris Rousimoff, who Beckett befriended. Rousimoff’s son was André the Giant and when Beckett found out that Rousimoff was having trouble getting his son to school due to his size, Beckett offered to drive André to school in his truck—a vehicle that could fit André. When André recounted the drives with Beckett, he revealed they rarely talked about anything other than cricket. From the late 1950s until his death, Beckett had a relationship with Barbara Bray, a widow who worked as a script editor for the BBC. Knowlson wrote of them: „She was small and attractive, but, above all, keenly intelligent and well-read. Beckett seems to have been immediately attracted by her and she to him. Their encounter was highly significant for them both, for it represented the beginning of a relationship that was to last, in parallel with that with Suzanne, for the rest of his life.” Barbara Bray died in Edinburgh on 25 February 2010. In October 1969 while on holiday in Tunis with Suzanne, Beckett heard that he had won the Nobel Prize for Literature. Anticipating that her intensely private husband would be saddled with fame from that moment on, Suzanne called the award a „catastrophe”. In true ascetic fashion, he gave away all of the prize money. While Beckett did not devote much time to interviews, he sometimes met the artists, scholars, and admirers who sought him out in the anonymous lobby of the Hotel PLM St. Jacques in Paris near his Montparnasse home. Although Beckett was an intensely private man, a review of the second volume of his letters by Roy Foster in the 15 December 2011 issue of The New Republic reveals Beckett to be not only unexpectedly amiable but frequently prepared to talk about his work and the process behind it. Suzanne died on 17 July 1989. Confined to a nursing home and suffering from emphysema and possibly Parkinson’s disease, Beckett died on 22 December. The two were interred together in the Cimetière du Montparnasse in Paris and share a simple granite gravestone that follows Beckett’s directive that it should be „any colour, so long as it’s grey.” Works Beckett’s career as a writer can be roughly divided into three periods: his early works, up until the end of World War II in 1945; his middle period, stretching from 1945 until the early 1960s, during which period he wrote what are probably his best-known works; and his late period, from the early 1960s until Beckett’s death in 1989, during which his works tended to become shorter and his style more minimalist. Early works Beckett’s earliest works are generally considered to have been strongly influenced by the work of his friend James Joyce. They are erudite and seem to display the author’s learning merely for its own sake, resulting in several obscure passages. The opening phrases of the short-story collection More Pricks than Kicks (1934) affords a representative sample of this style: It was morning and Belacqua was stuck in the first of the canti in the moon. He was so bogged that he could move neither backward nor forward. Blissful Beatrice was there, Dante also, and she explained the spots on the moon to him. She shewed him in the first place where he was at fault, then she put up her own explanation. She had it from God, therefore he could rely on its being accurate in every particular. The passage makes reference to Dante’s Commedia, which can serve to confuse readers not familiar with that work. It also anticipates aspects of Beckett’s later work: the physical inactivity of the character Belacqua; the character’s immersion in his own head and thoughts; the somewhat irreverent comedy of the final sentence. Similar elements are present in Beckett’s first published novel, Murphy (1938), which also explores the themes of insanity and chess (both of which would be recurrent elements in Beckett’s later works). The novel’s opening sentence hints at the somewhat pessimistic undertones and black humour that animate many of Beckett’s works: „The sun shone, having no alternative, on the nothing new”. Watt, written while Beckett was in hiding in Roussillon during World War II, is similar in terms of themes but less exuberant in its style. It explores human movement as if it were a mathematical permutation, presaging Beckett’s later preoccupation—in both his novels and dramatic works—with precise movement. Beckett’s 1930 essay Proust was strongly influenced by Schopenhauer’s pessimism and laudatory descriptions of saintly asceticism. At this time Beckett began to write creatively in the French language. In the late 1930s, he wrote a number of short poems in that language and their sparseness—in contrast to the density of his English poems of roughly the same period, collected in Echo’s Bones and Other Precipitates (1935)—seems to show that Beckett, albeit through the medium of another language, was in process of simplifying his style, a change also evidenced in Watt. From Watt (1953) After World War II, Beckett turned definitively to the French language as a vehicle. It was this, together with the „revelation” experienced in his mother’s room in Dublin—in which he realized that his art must be subjective and drawn wholly from his own inner world—that would result in the works for which Beckett is best remembered today. During the 15 years following the war, Beckett produced four major full-length stage plays: En attendant Godot (written 1948–1949; Waiting for Godot), Fin de partie (1955–1957; Endgame), Krapp’s Last Tape (1958), and Happy Days (1961). These plays—which are often considered, rightly or wrongly, to have been instrumental in the so-called „Theatre of the Absurd”—deal in a very blackly humorous way with themes similar to those of the roughly contemporary existentialist thinkers. The term „Theatre of the Absurd” was coined by Martin Esslin in a book of the same name; Beckett and Godot were centerpieces of the book. Esslin claimed these plays were the fulfilment of Albert Camus’s concept of „the absurd”; this is one reason Beckett is often falsely labeled as an existentialist (this is based on the assumption that Camus was an existentialist, though he in fact broke off from the existentialist movement and founded his own philosophy). Though many of the themes are similar, Beckett had little affinity for existentialism as a whole. Broadly speaking, the plays deal with the subject of despair and the will to survive in spite of that despair, in the face of an uncomprehending and incomprehensible world. The words of Nell—one of the two characters in Endgame who are trapped in ashbins, from which they occasionally peek their heads to speak—can best summarize the themes of the plays of Beckett’s middle period: „Nothing is funnier than unhappiness, I grant you that. … Yes, yes, it’s the most comical thing in the world. And we laugh, we laugh, with a will, in the beginning. But it’s always the same thing. Yes, it’s like the funny story we have heard too often, we still find it funny, but we don’t laugh any more.” Beckett’s outstanding achievements in prose during the period were the three novels Molloy (1951), Malone meurt (1951; Malone Dies) and L’innommable (1953: The Unnamable). In these novels—sometimes referred to as a „trilogy”, though this is against the author’s own explicit wishes—the prose becomes increasingly bare and stripped down. Molloy, for instance, still retains many of the characteristics of a conventional novel (time, place, movement, and plot) and it makes use of the structure of a detective novel. In Malone Dies, movement and plot are largely dispensed with, though there is still some indication of place and the passage of time; the „action” of the book takes the form of an interior monologue. Finally, in The Unnamable, almost all sense of place and time are abolished, and the essential theme seems to be the conflict between the voice’s drive to continue speaking so as to continue existing, and its almost equally strong urge towards silence and oblivion. Despite the widely held view that Beckett’s work, as exemplified by the novels of this period, is essentially pessimistic, the will to live seems to win out in the end; witness, for instance, the famous final phrase of The Unnamable: ‘I can’t go on, I’ll go on’. After these three novels, Beckett struggled for many years to produce a sustained work of prose, a struggle evidenced by the brief „stories” later collected as Texts for Nothing. In the late 1950s, however, he created one of his most radical prose works, Comment c’est (1961; How It Is. An early variant version of Comment c’est, L’Image, was published in the British arts review, X: A Quarterly Review (1959), and is the first appearance of the novel in any form). This work relates the adventures of an unnamed narrator crawling through the mud while dragging a sack of canned food. It was written as a sequence of unpunctuated paragraphs in a style approaching telegraphese: „You are there somewhere alive somewhere vast stretch of time then it’s over you are there no more alive no more than again you are there again alive again it wasn’t over an error you begin again all over more or less in the same place or in another as when another image above in the light you come to in hospital in the dark” Following this work, it was almost another decade before Beckett produced a work of non-dramatic prose. How It Is is generally considered to mark the end of his middle period as a writer. From Rockaby (1980) Throughout the 1960s and into the 1970s, Beckett’s works exhibited an increasing tendency—already evident in much of his work of the 1950s—towards compactness. This has led to his work sometimes being described as minimalist. The extreme example of this, among his dramatic works, is the 1969 piece Breath, which lasts for only 35 seconds and has no characters (though it was likely intended to offer ironic comment on Oh! Calcutta!, the theatrical revue for which it served as an introductory piece). Portrait by Reginald Gray In his theatre of the late period, Beckett’s characters—already few in number in the earlier plays—are whittled down to essential elements. The ironically titled Play (1962), for instance, consists of three characters immersed up to their necks in large funeral urns. The television drama Eh Joe (1963), which was written for the actor Jack MacGowran, is animated by a camera that steadily closes in to a tight focus upon the face of the title character. The play Not I (1972) consists almost solely of, in Beckett’s words, „a moving mouth with the rest of the stage in darkness”. Following from Krapp’s Last Tape, many of these later plays explore memory, often in the form of a forced recollection of haunting past events in a moment of stillness in the present. They also deal with the theme of the self confined and observed, with a voice that either comes from outside into the protagonist’s head (as in Eh Joe) or else another character comments on the protagonist silently, by means of gesture (as in Not I). Beckett’s most politically charged play, Catastrophe (1982), which was dedicated to Václav Havel, deals relatively explicitly with the idea of dictatorship. After a long period of inactivity, Beckett’s poetry experienced a revival during this period in the ultra-terse French poems of mirlitonnades, with some as short as six words long. These defied Beckett’s usual scrupulous concern to translate his work from its original into the other of his two languages; several writers, including Derek Mahon, have attempted translations, but no complete version of the sequence has been published in English. Beckett’s prose pieces during the late period were not so prolific as his theatre, as suggested by the title of the 1976 collection of short prose texts Fizzles (which the American artist Jasper Johns illustrated). Beckett experienced something of a renaissance with the novella Company (1980), which continued with Ill Seen Ill Said (1982) and Worstward Ho (1984), later collected in Nohow On. In these three „‘closed space’ stories,” Beckett continued his preoccupation with memory and its effect on the confined and observed self, as well as with the positioning of bodies in space, as the opening phrases of Company make clear: „A voice comes to one in the dark. Imagine.” „To one on his back in the dark. This he can tell by the pressure on his hind parts and by how the dark changes when he shuts his eyes and again when he opens them again. Only a small part of what is said can be verified. As for example when he hears, You are on your back in the dark. Then he must acknowledge the truth of what is said.” Themes of aloneness and the doomed desire to successfully connect with other human beings are expressed in several late pieces, including Company and Rockaby. In the hospital and nursing home where he spent his final days, Beckett wrote his last work, the 1988 poem „What is the Word” („Comment dire”). The poem grapples with an inability to find words to express oneself, a theme echoing Beckett’s earlier work, though possibly amplified by the sickness he experienced late in life. Collaborators Jack MacGowran Jack MacGowran was the first actor to do a one-man show based on the works of Beckett. He debuted End of Day in Dublin in 1962, revising it as Beginning To End (1965). The show went through further revisions before Beckett directed it in Paris in 1970; MacGowran won the 1970-71 Obie for Best Performance By an Actor when he performed the show off-Broadway as Jack MacGowran in the Works of Samuel Beckett. Beckett wrote the radio play Embers and the teleplay Eh Joe specifically for MacGowran. The actor also appeared in various productions of Waiting for Godot and Endgame, and did several readings of Beckett’s plays and poems on BBC Radio; he also recorded the LP, MacGowran Speaking Beckett for Claddagh Records in 1966. Billie Whitelaw Billie Whitelaw worked with Beckett for 25 years on such plays as Not I, Eh Joe, Krapp’s Last Tape, and Footfalls and Rockaby. She first met Beckett in 1963. In her autobiography she describes their first meeting in 1963 was „trust at first sight”. Beckett went on to write many of his experimental theatre works for her. She came to be regarded as his muse, the „supreme interpreter of his work”, perhaps most famous for her role as the mouth in Not I. She said of the play Rockaby: „I put the tape in my head. And I sort of look in a particular way, but not at the audience. Sometimes as a director Beckett comes out with absolute gems and I use them a lot in other areas. We were doing Happy Days and I just did not know where in the theatre to look during this particular section. And I asked, and he thought for a bit and then said, ‘Inward’ „. She said of her role in Footfalls: „I felt like a moving, musical Edvard Munch painting and, in fact, when Beckett was directing Footfalls he was not only using me to play the notes but I almost felt that he did have the paintbrush out and was painting.” „Sam knew that I would turn myself inside out to give him what he wanted”, she explained. „With all of Sam’s work, the scream was there, my task was to try to get it out.” She stopped performing his plays in 1989 when he died. Jocelyn Herbert The English stage designer Jocelyn Herbert was a close friend and influence on Beckett until his death. She worked with him on such plays as Happy Days (their third project) and Krapp’s Last Tape at the Royal Court Theatre. Beckett said that Herbert became his closest friend in England: „She has a great feeling for the work and is very sensitive and doesn’t want to bang the nail on the head. Generally speaking, there is a tendency on the part of designers to overstate, and this has never been the case with Jocelyn.” Walter Asmus The distinguished German director Walter D. Asmus began his working relationship with Beckett in the Schiller Theatre in Berlin in 1974 and continued until 1989, the year of the playwright’s death. Asmus has directed all of Beckett’s plays internationally. Legacy Samuel Beckett depicted on an Irish commemorative coin celebrating the 100th anniversary of his birth. Of all the English-language modernists, Beckett’s work represents the most sustained attack on the realist tradition. He opened up the possibility of theatre and fiction that dispense with conventional plot and the unities of time and place in order to focus on essential components of the human condition. Václav Havel, John Banville, Aidan Higgins, Tom Stoppard, Harold Pinter and Jon Fosse have publicly stated their indebtedness to Beckett’s example. He has had a wider influence on experimental writing since the 1950s, from the Beat generation to the happenings of the 1960s and after. In an Irish context, he has exerted great influence on poets such as Derek Mahon and Thomas Kinsella, as well as writers like Trevor Joyce and Catherine Walsh who proclaim their adherence to the modernist tradition as an alternative to the dominant realist mainstream. Many major 20th-century composers including Luciano Berio, György Kurtág, Morton Feldman, Pascal Dusapin, Philip Glass, Roman Haubenstock-Ramati and Heinz Holliger have created musical works based on Beckett’s texts. His work has also influenced numerous international writers, artists and filmmakers including Edward Albee, Avigdor Arikha, Paul Auster, J. M. Coetzee, Richard Kalich, Douglas Gordon, Bruce Nauman, Anthony Minghella, and Damian Pettigrew. Beckett is one of the most widely discussed and highly prized of 20th-century authors, inspiring a critical industry to rival that which has sprung up around James Joyce. He has divided critical opinion. Some early philosophical critics, such as Sartre and Theodor Adorno, praised him, one for his revelation of absurdity, the other for his works’ critical refusal of simplicities; others such as Georg Lukács condemned him for ‘decadent’ lack of realism. Since Beckett’s death, all rights for performance of his plays are handled by the Beckett estate, currently managed by Edward Beckett (the author’s nephew). The estate has a controversial reputation for maintaining firm control over how Beckett’s plays are performed and does not grant licenses to productions that do not adhere to the writer’s stage directions. Historians interested in tracing Beckett’s blood line were, in 2004, granted access to confirmed trace samples of his DNA to conduct molecular genealogical studies to facilitate precise lineage determination. Some of the best-known pictures of Beckett were taken by photographer John Minihan, who photographed him between 1980 and 1985 and developed such a good relationship with the writer that he became, in effect, his official photographer. Some consider one of these to be among the top three photographs of the 20th century. It was the theater photographer John Haynes, however, who took possibly the most widely reproduced image of Beckett: it is used on the cover of the Knowlson biography, for instance. This portrait was taken during rehearsals of the San Quentin Drama Workshop at the Royal Court Theatre in London, where Haynes photographed many productions of Beckett’s work. An Post, the Irish postal service, issued a commemorative stamp of Beckett in 1994. The Central Bank of Ireland launched two Samuel Beckett Centenary commemorative coins on 26 April 2006: €10 Silver Coin and €20 Gold Coin. On 10 December 2009, the new bridge across the River Liffey in Dublin was opened and named the Samuel Beckett Bridge in his honour. Reminiscent of a harp on its side, it was designed by the celebrated Spanish architect Santiago Calatrava, who had also designed the James Joyce Bridge further upstream opened on Bloomsday (16 June) 2003. Attendees at the official opening ceremony included Beckett’s niece Caroline Murphy, his nephew Edward Beckett, poet Seamus Heaney and Barry McGovern. The newest ship of the Irish Naval Service, the LÉ Samuel Beckett (P61), is named for Beckett. An Ulster History Circle blue plaque in his memory is located at Portora Royal School, Enniskillen, County Fermanagh. Happy Days Enniskillen International Beckett Festival is an annual multi-arts festival celebrating the work and influence of Beckett. The festival, founded in 2011, is held at Enniskillen, Northern Ireland where Beckett spent his formative years studying at Portora Royal School. Music for three Samuel Beckett plays (Words and Music, Cascando, and …but the clouds…), was composed by Martin Pearlman which was commissioned by the 92nd Street Y in New York for the Beckett centennial and produced there and at Harvard University. Honours and awards Croix de guerre (France) Médaille de la Résistance (France) 1959 honorary doctorate from Trinity College, Dublin 1961 International Publishers’ Formentor Prize (shared with Jorge Luis Borges). 1968 Foreign Honorary Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences[67] 1969 Nobel Prize for Literature. Saoi of Aosdana (Ireland) 2016 The house that Beckett lived in in 1934 (48 Paultons Square, Chelsea, London) has received an English Heritage Blue Plaque [68] Selected works by Beckett Dramatic works / Theatre Human Wishes (c. 1936; published 1984) Eleutheria (written 1947 in French; published in French 1995, and English 1996) En attendant Godot (published 1952, performed,1953) (Waiting for Godot, pub. 1954, perf. 1955)[69] Acte sans Paroles I (1956); Act Without Words I (1957) Acte sans Paroles II (1956); Act Without Words II (1957) Fin de partie (published 1957); Endgame (published 1957) Krapp’s Last Tape (first performed 1958) Fragment de théâtre I (late 1950s); Rough for Theatre I Fragment de théâtre II (late 1950s); Rough for Theatre II Happy Days (first performed 1961); Oh les beaux jours (published 1963) Play (performed in German, as Spiel, 1963; English version 1964) Come and Go (first performed in German, then English, 1966) Breath (first performed 1969) Not I (first performed 1972) That Time (first performed 1976) Footfalls (first performed 1976) Neither (1977) (An „opera”, music by Morton Feldman) A Piece of Monologue (first performed 1979) Rockaby (first performed 1981) Ohio Impromptu (first performed 1981) Catastrophe (Catastrophe et autres dramatiques, first performed 1982) What Where (first performed 1983) Radio All That Fall (broadcast 1957) From an Abandoned Work (broadcast 1957) Embers (broadcast 1959) Rough for Radio I (published 1976) (written in French in 1961 as Esquisse radiophonique) Rough for Radio II (published 1976) (written in French in 1961 as Pochade radiophonique) Words and Music (broadcast 1962) Cascando (broadcast:1963 French version; 1964 English translation) Television Eh Joe with Jack MacGowran (broadcast 1966)[70] Beginning To End with Jack MacGowran (1965) Ghost Trio (broadcast 1977) … but the clouds … (broadcast 1977) Quad I + II (broadcast 1981) Nacht und Träume (broadcast 1983); Night and Dreams, published 1984 Beckett Directs Beckett (1988/92) Cinema Film (1965) Prose Novels Dream of Fair to Middling Women (written 1932; published 1992) Murphy (1938); 1947 Beckett’s French version Watt (1953); 1968, Beckett’s French version Molloy (1951); English version (1955) Malone meurt (1951); Malone Dies (1956) L’innommable (1953); The Unnamable (1958) Comment c’est (1961); How It Is (1964) Mercier and Camier (written 1946, published 1970); English translation (1974) Short prose More Pricks Than Kicks (1934) „Echo’s Bones” (written 1933, published 2014) „L’Expulsé”, written 1946, in Nouvelles et Textes pour rien (1955); „The Expelled” Stories and Texts for Nothing (1967)[71] „Le Calmant”, written 1946, in Nouvelles et Textes pour rien (1955); „The Calmative”, Stories and Texts for Nothing (1967) „La Fin”, written 1946, partially published in Les Temps Modernes in 1946 as „Suite”; in Nouvelles et Textes pour rien (1955); „The End”, Stories and Texts for Nothing (1967) „Texts for Nothing”, translated into French for Nouvelles et Textes pour rien (1955); Stories and Texts for Nothing (1967)[72] „L’Image” (1959) a fragment from Comment c’est [73] ‘”Premier Amour” (1970, written 1946); translated by Beckett as „First Love”, 1973[69] Le Dépeupleur (1970); The Lost Ones (1971) Pour finir encore et autres foirades (1976); For to End Yet Again and Other Fizzles (1976) Company (1980) Mal vu mal dit (1981); Ill Seen Ill Said (1982) Worstward Ho (1983) „Stirrings Still” (1988) „As the Story was Told” (1990) The Complete Short Prose: 1929-1989, ed S. E. Gontarski. New York: Grove Press, 1995 Non-fiction „Dante…Bruno. Vico..Joyce” (1929; Beckett’s contribution to the collection Our Exagmination Round His Factification for Incamination of Work in Progress) Proust (1931) Three Dialogues (with Georges Duthuit and Jacques Putnam) (1949) Disjecta: Miscellaneous Writings and a Dramatic Fragment (1929–1967) Poetry collections Whoroscope (1930) Echo’s Bones and other Precipitates (1935) Poèmes (1968, expanded 1976, 1979, 1992) [1] Poems in English (1961) Collected Poems in English and French (1977) What is the Word (1989) Selected Poems 1930–1989 (2009) The Collected Poems of Samuel Beckett, edited, annotated by Seán Lawlor, John Pilling (2012, Faber and Faber, 2014, Grove Press) Translation collections and long works[edit] Anna Livia Plurabelle (James Joyce, French translation by Beckett and others) (1931) Negro: an Anthology (Nancy Cunard, editor) (1934) Anthology of Mexican Poems (Octavio Paz, editor) (1958) The Old Tune (Robert Pinget) (1963) What Is Surrealism? Selected Essays (André Breton) (various short pieces in the collection) FOTO: Samuel Beckett Written by: Constantin Enache Samuel Barclay Beckett (13 April 1906 – 22 December 1989) was an Irish avant-garde novelist, playwright, theatre director, and poet, who lived in Paris for most of his adult life and wrote in both English and French. He is widely regarded as among the most influential writers of the 20th century. Beckett’s work offers a bleak, tragicomic outlook on human existence, often coupled with black comedy and gallows humour, and became increasingly minimalist in his later career. He is considered one of the last modernist writers, and one of the key figures in what Martin Esslin called the „Theatre of the Absurd”. Beckett was awarded the 1969 Nobel Prize in Literature „for his writing, which—in new forms for the novel and drama—in the destitution of modern man acquires its elevation.” He was elected Saoi of Aosdána in 1984. Early life and education The Becketts were members of the Anglican Church of Ireland. The family home, Cooldrinagh in the Dublin suburb of Foxrock, was a large house and garden complete with tennis court built in 1903 by Samuel’s father, William. The house and garden, together with the surrounding countryside where he often went walking with his father, the nearby Leopardstown Racecourse, the Foxrock railway station and Harcourt Street station at the city terminus of the line, all feature in his prose and plays. Samuel Beckett was born on Good Friday, 13 April 1906, to William Frank Beckett, a quantity surveyor and descendant of the Huguenots, and Maria Jones Roe, a nurse, when both were 35.They had married in 1901. Beckett had one older brother, Frank Edward Beckett (born 1902). At the age of five, Beckett attended a local playschool, where he started to learn music, and then moved to Earlsfort House School in the city centre near Harcourt Street. In 1919, Beckett went to Portora Royal School in Enniskillen, County Fermanagh (which Oscar Wilde had also attended). A natural athlete, Beckett excelled at cricket as a left-handed batsman and a left-arm medium-pace bowler. Later, he was to play for Dublin University and played two first-class games against Northamptonshire. As a result, he became the only Nobel literature laureate to have played first class cricket. Early writings Beckett studied French, Italian, and English at Trinity College, Dublin from 1923 to 1927 (one of his tutors was the eminent Berkeley scholar A. A. Luce). He was elected a Scholar in Modern Languages in 1926. Beckett graduated with a BA and, after teaching briefly at Campbell College in Belfast, took up the post of lecteur d’anglais at the École Normale Supérieure in Paris from November 1928 to 1930. While there, he was introduced to renowned Irish author James Joyce by Thomas MacGreevy, a poet and close confidant of Beckett who also worked there. This meeting had a profound effect on the young man. Beckett assisted Joyce in various ways, one of which was research towards the book that became Finnegans Wake. In 1929, Beckett published his first work, a critical essay entitled „Dante… Bruno. Vico.. Joyce”. The essay defends Joyce’s work and method, chiefly from allegations of wanton obscurity and dimness, and was Beckett’s contribution to Our Exagmination Round His Factification for Incamination of Work in Progress (a book of essays on Joyce which also included contributions by Eugene Jolas, Robert McAlmon, and William Carlos Williams). Beckett’s close relationship with Joyce and his family cooled, however, when he rejected the advances of Joyce’s daughter Lucia owing to her progressing schizophrenia. Beckett’s first short story, „Assumption”, was published in Jolas’s periodical transition. The next year he won a small literary prize for his hastily composed poem „Whoroscope”, which draws on a biography of René Descartes that Beckett happened to be reading when he was encouraged to submit. In 1930, Beckett returned to Trinity College as a lecturer. In November 1930, he presented a paper in French to the Modern Languages Society of Trinity on the Toulouse poet Jean du Chas, founder of a movement called le Concentrisme. It was a literary parody, for Beckett had in fact invented the poet and his movement that claimed to be „at odds with all that is clear and distinct in Descartes.” Beckett later insisted that he had not intended to fool his audience. When Beckett resigned from Trinity at the end of 1931, his brief academic career was at an end. He commemorated it with the poem „Gnome”, which was inspired by his reading of Johann Wolfgang Goethe’s Wilhelm Meister’s Apprenticeship and eventually published in The Dublin Magazine in 1934: Spend the years of learning squandering Courage for the years of wandering Through a world politely turning From the loutishness of learning Beckett travelled in Europe. He spent some time in London, where in 1931 he published Proust, his critical study of French author Marcel Proust. Two years later, following his father’s death, he began two years’ treatment with Tavistock Clinic psychoanalyst Dr. Wilfred Bion. Aspects of it became evident in Beckett’s later works, such as Watt and Waiting for Godot. In 1932, he wrote his first novel, Dream of Fair to Middling Women, but after many rejections from publishers decided to abandon it (it was eventually published in 1992). Despite his inability to get it published, however, the novel served as a source for many of Beckett’s early poems, as well as for his first full-length book, the 1933 short-story collection More Pricks Than Kicks. Beckett published essays and reviews, including „Recent Irish Poetry” (in The Bookman, August 1934) and „Humanistic Quietism”, a review of his friend Thomas MacGreevy’s Poems (in The Dublin Magazine, July–September 1934). They focused on the work of MacGreevy, Brian Coffey, Denis Devlin and Blanaid Salkeld, despite their slender achievements at the time, comparing them favourably with their Celtic Revival contemporaries and invoking Ezra Pound, T. S. Eliot, and the French symbolists as their precursors. In describing these poets as forming „the nucleus of a living poetic in Ireland”, Beckett was tracing the outlines of an Irish poetic modernist canon. In 1935—the year that Beckett successfully published a book of his poetry, Echo’s Bones and Other Precipitates—Beckett worked on his novel Murphy. In May, he wrote to MacGreevy that he had been reading about film and wished to go to Moscow to study with Sergei Eisenstein at the Gerasimov Institute of Cinematography in Moscow. In mid-1936 he wrote to Eisenstein and Vsevolod Pudovkin to offer himself as their apprentices. Nothing came of this, however, as Beckett’s letter was lost owing to Eisenstein’s quarantine during the smallpox outbreak, as well as his focus on a script re-write of his postponed film production. In 1936, a friend had suggested him to look up the works of Arnold Geulincx, which Beckett did and he took many notes. The philosopher’s name is mentioned in Murphy and the reading apparently left a strong impression. Murphy was finished in 1936 and Beckett departed for extensive travel around Germany, during which time he filled several notebooks with lists of noteworthy artwork that he had seen and noted his distaste for the Nazi savagery that was overtaking the country. Returning to Ireland briefly in 1937, he oversaw the publication of Murphy (1938), which he translated into French the following year. He fell out with his mother, which contributed to his decision to settle permanently in Paris. Beckett remained in Paris following the outbreak of World War II in 1939, preferring, in his own words, „France at war to Ireland at peace”. His was soon a known face in and around Left Bank cafés, where he strengthened his allegiance with Joyce and forged new ones with artists Alberto Giacometti and Marcel Duchamp, with whom he regularly played chess. Sometime around December 1937, Beckett had a brief affair with Peggy Guggenheim, who nicknamed him „Oblomov” (after the character in Ivan Goncharov’s novel). In January 1938 in Paris, Beckett was stabbed in the chest and nearly killed when he refused the solicitations of a notorious pimp (who went by the name of Prudent). Joyce arranged a private room for Beckett at the hospital. The publicity surrounding the stabbing attracted the attention of Suzanne Dechevaux-Dumesnil, who previously knew Beckett slightly from his first stay in Paris. This time, however, the two would begin a lifelong companionship. At a preliminary hearing, Beckett asked his attacker for the motive behind the stabbing. Prudent replied: „Je ne sais pas, Monsieur. Je m’excuse” [„I do not know, sir. I’m sorry”]. Beckett eventually dropped the charges against his attacker—partially to avoid further formalities, partly because he found Prudent likeable and well-mannered. World War II and French Resistance After the Nazi German occupation of France in 1940, Beckett joined the French Resistance, in which he worked as a courier. On several occasions over the next two years he was nearly caught by the Gestapo. In August 1942, his unit was betrayed and he and Suzanne fled south on foot to the safety of the small village of Roussillon, in the Vaucluse département in Provence-Alpes-Côte d’Azur. There he continued to assist the Resistance by storing armaments in the back yard of his home. During the two years that Beckett stayed in Roussillon he indirectly helped the Maquis sabotage the German army in the Vaucluse mountains, though he rarely spoke about his wartime work in later life. Beckett was awarded the Croix de guerre and the Médaille de la Résistance by the French government for his efforts in fighting the German occupation; to the end of his life, however, Beckett would refer to his work with the French Resistance as „boy scout stuff”.While in hiding in Roussillon, he continued work on the novel Watt (begun in 1941 and completed in 1945, but not published until 1953, though an extract had appeared in the Dublin literary periodical Envoy). Fame: novels and the theatre In 1945, Beckett returned to Dublin for a brief visit. During his stay, he had a revelation in his mother’s room: his entire future direction in literature appeared to him. Beckett had felt that he would remain forever in the shadow of Joyce, certain to never best him at his own game. His revelation prompted him to change direction and to acknowledge both his own stupidity and his interest in ignorance and impotence: „I realized that Joyce had gone as far as one could in the direction of knowing more, [being] in control of one’s material. He was always adding to it; you only have to look at his proofs to see that. I realized that my own way was in impoverishment, in lack of knowledge and in taking away, in subtracting rather than in adding.” Knowlson argues that „Beckett was rejecting the Joycean principle that knowing more was a way of creatively understanding the world and controlling it … In future, his work would focus on poverty, failure, exile and loss – as he put it, on man as a ‘non-knower’ and as a ‘non-can-er.'” The revelation „has rightly been regarded as a pivotal moment in his entire career.” Beckett fictionalised the experience in his play Krapp’s Last Tape (1958). While listening to a tape he made earlier in his life, Krapp hears his younger self say „clear to me at last that the dark I have always struggled to keep under is in reality my most…”, at which point Krapp fast-forwards the tape (before the audience can hear the complete revelation). Beckett later explained to Knowlson that the missing words on the tape are „precious ally.” In 1946, Jean-Paul Sartre’s magazine Les Temps modernes published the first part of Beckett’s short story „Suite” (later to be called „La Fin”, or „The End”), not realizing that Beckett had only submitted the first half of the story; Simone de Beauvoir refused to publish the second part. Beckett also began to write his fourth novel, Mercier et Camier, which was not published until 1970. The novel presaged his most famous work, the play Waiting for Godot, which was written not long afterwards. More importantly, the novel was Beckett’s first long work that he wrote in French, the language of most of his subsequent works which were strongly supported by Jérôme Lindon director of his parisian publishing house Les Éditions de Minuit, including the poioumenon „trilogy” of novels: Molloy (1951); Malone meurt (1951), Malone Dies (1958); L’innommable (1953), The Unnamable, (1960). Despite being a native English speaker, Beckett wrote in French because—as he himself claimed—it was easier for him thus to write „without style.” Beckett is most famous for his play En attendant Godot (1953) (Waiting for Godot). In a much-quoted article, the critic Vivian Mercier wrote that Beckett „has achieved a theoretical impossibility—a play in which nothing happens, that yet keeps audiences glued to their seats. What’s more, since the second act is a subtly different reprise of the first, he has written a play in which nothing happens, twice.” Like most of his works after 1947, the play was first written in French with the title En attendant Godot. Beckett worked on the play between October 1948 and January 1949. He published it in 1952 and it premièred in 1953; an English translation appeared two years later. Directed by Roger Blin, the play was a critical, popular, and controversial success in Paris. It opened in London in 1955 to mainly negative reviews, but the tide turned with positive reactions from Harold Hobson in The Sunday Times and, later, Kenneth Tynan. In the United States, it flopped in Miami and had a qualified success in New York City. After this, the play became extremely popular, with highly successful performances in the US and Germany. It is frequently performed today. Beckett translated all of his works into English himself, with the exception of Molloy, for which he collaborated with Patrick Bowles. The success of Waiting for Godot opened up a career in theatre for its author. Beckett went on to write successful full-length plays, including Fin de partie (Endgame) (1957), Krapp’s Last Tape (1958, written in English), Happy Days (1961, also written in English), and Play (1963). In 1961, Beckett received the International Publishers’ Formentor Prize in recognition of his work, which he shared that year with Jorge Luis Borges. Later life and death The 1960s was a period of change for Beckett, both on a personal level and as a writer. In 1961, he married Suzanne in a secret civil ceremony in England (its secrecy due to reasons relating to French inheritance law). The success of his plays led to invitations to attend rehearsals and productions around the world, leading eventually to a new career as a theatre director. In 1956, he had his first commission from the BBC Third Programme for a radio play, All That Fall. He continued writing sporadically for radio and extended his scope to include cinema and television. He began to write in English again, although he also wrote in French until the end of his life. Beckett bought some land in 1953 near a hamlet around forty miles northeast of Paris and built a cottage for himself with the help of some locals. One of the locals that helped him build the cottage was a Bulgarian-born farmer named Boris Rousimoff, who Beckett befriended. Rousimoff’s son was André the Giant and when Beckett found out that Rousimoff was having trouble getting his son to school due to his size, Beckett offered to drive André to school in his truck—a vehicle that could fit André. When André recounted the drives with Beckett, he revealed they rarely talked about anything other than cricket. From the late 1950s until his death, Beckett had a relationship with Barbara Bray, a widow who worked as a script editor for the BBC. Knowlson wrote of them: „She was small and attractive, but, above all, keenly intelligent and well-read. Beckett seems to have been immediately attracted by her and she to him. Their encounter was highly significant for them both, for it represented the beginning of a relationship that was to last, in parallel with that with Suzanne, for the rest of his life.” Barbara Bray died in Edinburgh on 25 February 2010. In October 1969 while on holiday in Tunis with Suzanne, Beckett heard that he had won the Nobel Prize for Literature. Anticipating that her intensely private husband would be saddled with fame from that moment on, Suzanne called the award a „catastrophe”. In true ascetic fashion, he gave away all of the prize money. While Beckett did not devote much time to interviews, he sometimes met the artists, scholars, and admirers who sought him out in the anonymous lobby of the Hotel PLM St. Jacques in Paris near his Montparnasse home. Although Beckett was an intensely private man, a review of the second volume of his letters by Roy Foster in the 15 December 2011 issue of The New Republic reveals Beckett to be not only unexpectedly amiable but frequently prepared to talk about his work and the process behind it. Suzanne died on 17 July 1989. Confined to a nursing home and suffering from emphysema and possibly Parkinson’s disease, Beckett died on 22 December. The two were interred together in the Cimetière du Montparnasse in Paris and share a simple granite gravestone that follows Beckett’s directive that it should be „any colour, so long as it’s grey.” Beckett’s career as a writer can be roughly divided into three periods: his early works, up until the end of World War II in 1945; his middle period, stretching from 1945 until the early 1960s, during which period he wrote what are probably his best-known works; and his late period, from the early 1960s until Beckett’s death in 1989, during which his works tended to become shorter and his style more minimalist. Early works Beckett’s earliest works are generally considered to have been strongly influenced by the work of his friend James Joyce. They are erudite and seem to display the author’s learning merely for its own sake, resulting in several obscure passages. The opening phrases of the short-story collection More Pricks than Kicks (1934) affords a representative sample of this style: It was morning and Belacqua was stuck in the first of the canti in the moon. He was so bogged that he could move neither backward nor forward. Blissful Beatrice was there, Dante also, and she explained the spots on the moon to him. She shewed him in the first place where he was at fault, then she put up her own explanation. She had it from God, therefore he could rely on its being accurate in every particular. The passage makes reference to Dante’s Commedia, which can serve to confuse readers not familiar with that work. It also anticipates aspects of Beckett’s later work: the physical inactivity of the character Belacqua; the character’s immersion in his own head and thoughts; the somewhat irreverent comedy of the final sentence. Similar elements are present in Beckett’s first published novel, Murphy (1938), which also explores the themes of insanity and chess (both of which would be recurrent elements in Beckett’s later works). The novel’s opening sentence hints at the somewhat pessimistic undertones and black humour that animate many of Beckett’s works: „The sun shone, having no alternative, on the nothing new”. Watt, written while Beckett was in hiding in Roussillon during World War II, is similar in terms of themes but less exuberant in its style. It explores human movement as if it were a mathematical permutation, presaging Beckett’s later preoccupation—in both his novels and dramatic works—with precise movement. Beckett’s 1930 essay Proust was strongly influenced by Schopenhauer’s pessimism and laudatory descriptions of saintly asceticism. At this time Beckett began to write creatively in the French language. In the late 1930s, he wrote a number of short poems in that language and their sparseness—in contrast to the density of his English poems of roughly the same period, collected in Echo’s Bones and Other Precipitates (1935)—seems to show that Beckett, albeit through the medium of another language, was in process of simplifying his style, a change also evidenced in Watt. From Watt (1953) After World War II, Beckett turned definitively to the French language as a vehicle. It was this, together with the „revelation” experienced in his mother’s room in Dublin—in which he realized that his art must be subjective and drawn wholly from his own inner world—that would result in the works for which Beckett is best remembered today. During the 15 years following the war, Beckett produced four major full-length stage plays: En attendant Godot (written 1948–1949; Waiting for Godot), Fin de partie (1955–1957; Endgame), Krapp’s Last Tape (1958), and Happy Days (1961). These plays—which are often considered, rightly or wrongly, to have been instrumental in the so-called „Theatre of the Absurd”—deal in a very blackly humorous way with themes similar to those of the roughly contemporary existentialist thinkers. The term „Theatre of the Absurd” was coined by Martin Esslin in a book of the same name; Beckett and Godot were centerpieces of the book. Esslin claimed these plays were the fulfilment of Albert Camus’s concept of „the absurd”; this is one reason Beckett is often falsely labeled as an existentialist (this is based on the assumption that Camus was an existentialist, though he in fact broke off from the existentialist movement and founded his own philosophy). Though many of the themes are similar, Beckett had little affinity for existentialism as a whole. Broadly speaking, the plays deal with the subject of despair and the will to survive in spite of that despair, in the face of an uncomprehending and incomprehensible world. The words of Nell—one of the two characters in Endgame who are trapped in ashbins, from which they occasionally peek their heads to speak—can best summarize the themes of the plays of Beckett’s middle period: „Nothing is funnier than unhappiness, I grant you that. … Yes, yes, it’s the most comical thing in the world. And we laugh, we laugh, with a will, in the beginning. But it’s always the same thing. Yes, it’s like the funny story we have heard too often, we still find it funny, but we don’t laugh any more.” Beckett’s outstanding achievements in prose during the period were the three novels Molloy (1951), Malone meurt (1951; Malone Dies) and L’innommable (1953: The Unnamable). In these novels—sometimes referred to as a „trilogy”, though this is against the author’s own explicit wishes—the prose becomes increasingly bare and stripped down. Molloy, for instance, still retains many of the characteristics of a conventional novel (time, place, movement, and plot) and it makes use of the structure of a detective novel. In Malone Dies, movement and plot are largely dispensed with, though there is still some indication of place and the passage of time; the „action” of the book takes the form of an interior monologue. Finally, in The Unnamable, almost all sense of place and time are abolished, and the essential theme seems to be the conflict between the voice’s drive to continue speaking so as to continue existing, and its almost equally strong urge towards silence and oblivion. Despite the widely held view that Beckett’s work, as exemplified by the novels of this period, is essentially pessimistic, the will to live seems to win out in the end; witness, for instance, the famous final phrase of The Unnamable: ‘I can’t go on, I’ll go on’. After these three novels, Beckett struggled for many years to produce a sustained work of prose, a struggle evidenced by the brief „stories” later collected as Texts for Nothing. In the late 1950s, however, he created one of his most radical prose works, Comment c’est (1961; How It Is. An early variant version of Comment c’est, L’Image, was published in the British arts review, X: A Quarterly Review (1959), and is the first appearance of the novel in any form). This work relates the adventures of an unnamed narrator crawling through the mud while dragging a sack of canned food. It was written as a sequence of unpunctuated paragraphs in a style approaching telegraphese: „You are there somewhere alive somewhere vast stretch of time then it’s over you are there no more alive no more than again you are there again alive again it wasn’t over an error you begin again all over more or less in the same place or in another as when another image above in the light you come to in hospital in the dark” Following this work, it was almost another decade before Beckett produced a work of non-dramatic prose. How It Is is generally considered to mark the end of his middle period as a writer. From Rockaby (1980) Throughout the 1960s and into the 1970s, Beckett’s works exhibited an increasing tendency—already evident in much of his work of the 1950s—towards compactness. This has led to his work sometimes being described as minimalist. The extreme example of this, among his dramatic works, is the 1969 piece Breath, which lasts for only 35 seconds and has no characters (though it was likely intended to offer ironic comment on Oh! Calcutta!, the theatrical revue for which it served as an introductory piece). Portrait by Reginald Gray In his theatre of the late period, Beckett’s characters—already few in number in the earlier plays—are whittled down to essential elements. The ironically titled Play (1962), for instance, consists of three characters immersed up to their necks in large funeral urns. The television drama Eh Joe (1963), which was written for the actor Jack MacGowran, is animated by a camera that steadily closes in to a tight focus upon the face of the title character. The play Not I (1972) consists almost solely of, in Beckett’s words, „a moving mouth with the rest of the stage in darkness”. Following from Krapp’s Last Tape, many of these later plays explore memory, often in the form of a forced recollection of haunting past events in a moment of stillness in the present. They also deal with the theme of the self confined and observed, with a voice that either comes from outside into the protagonist’s head (as in Eh Joe) or else another character comments on the protagonist silently, by means of gesture (as in Not I). Beckett’s most politically charged play, Catastrophe (1982), which was dedicated to Václav Havel, deals relatively explicitly with the idea of dictatorship. After a long period of inactivity, Beckett’s poetry experienced a revival during this period in the ultra-terse French poems of mirlitonnades, with some as short as six words long. These defied Beckett’s usual scrupulous concern to translate his work from its original into the other of his two languages; several writers, including Derek Mahon, have attempted translations, but no complete version of the sequence has been published in English. Beckett’s prose pieces during the late period were not so prolific as his theatre, as suggested by the title of the 1976 collection of short prose texts Fizzles (which the American artist Jasper Johns illustrated). Beckett experienced something of a renaissance with the novella Company (1980), which continued with Ill Seen Ill Said (1982) and Worstward Ho (1984), later collected in Nohow On. In these three „‘closed space’ stories,” Beckett continued his preoccupation with memory and its effect on the confined and observed self, as well as with the positioning of bodies in space, as the opening phrases of Company make clear: „A voice comes to one in the dark. Imagine.” „To one on his back in the dark. This he can tell by the pressure on his hind parts and by how the dark changes when he shuts his eyes and again when he opens them again. Only a small part of what is said can be verified. As for example when he hears, You are on your back in the dark. Then he must acknowledge the truth of what is said.” Themes of aloneness and the doomed desire to successfully connect with other human beings are expressed in several late pieces, including Company and Rockaby. In the hospital and nursing home where he spent his final days, Beckett wrote his last work, the 1988 poem „What is the Word” („Comment dire”). The poem grapples with an inability to find words to express oneself, a theme echoing Beckett’s earlier work, though possibly amplified by the sickness he experienced late in life. Collaborators Jack MacGowran Jack MacGowran was the first actor to do a one-man show based on the works of Beckett. He debuted End of Day in Dublin in 1962, revising it as Beginning To End (1965). The show went through further revisions before Beckett directed it in Paris in 1970; MacGowran won the 1970-71 Obie for Best Performance By an Actor when he performed the show off-Broadway as Jack MacGowran in the Works of Samuel Beckett. Beckett wrote the radio play Embers and the teleplay Eh Joe specifically for MacGowran. The actor also appeared in various productions of Waiting for Godot and Endgame, and did several readings of Beckett’s plays and poems on BBC Radio; he also recorded the LP, MacGowran Speaking Beckett for Claddagh Records in 1966. Billie Whitelaw Billie Whitelaw worked with Beckett for 25 years on such plays as Not I, Eh Joe, Krapp’s Last Tape, and Footfalls and Rockaby. She first met Beckett in 1963. In her autobiography she describes their first meeting in 1963 was „trust at first sight”. Beckett went on to write many of his experimental theatre works for her. She came to be regarded as his muse, the „supreme interpreter of his work”, perhaps most famous for her role as the mouth in Not I. She said of the play Rockaby: „I put the tape in my head. And I sort of look in a particular way, but not at the audience. Sometimes as a director Beckett comes out with absolute gems and I use them a lot in other areas. We were doing Happy Days and I just did not know where in the theatre to look during this particular section. And I asked, and he thought for a bit and then said, ‘Inward’ „. She said of her role in Footfalls: „I felt like a moving, musical Edvard Munch painting and, in fact, when Beckett was directing Footfalls he was not only using me to play the notes but I almost felt that he did have the paintbrush out and was painting.” „Sam knew that I would turn myself inside out to give him what he wanted”, she explained. „With all of Sam’s work, the scream was there, my task was to try to get it out.” She stopped performing his plays in 1989 when he died. Jocelyn Herbert The English stage designer Jocelyn Herbert was a close friend and influence on Beckett until his death. She worked with him on such plays as Happy Days (their third project) and Krapp’s Last Tape at the Royal Court Theatre. Beckett said that Herbert became his closest friend in England: „She has a great feeling for the work and is very sensitive and doesn’t want to bang the nail on the head. Generally speaking, there is a tendency on the part of designers to overstate, and this has never been the case with Jocelyn.” Walter Asmus The distinguished German director Walter D. Asmus began his working relationship with Beckett in the Schiller Theatre in Berlin in 1974 and continued until 1989, the year of the playwright’s death. Asmus has directed all of Beckett’s plays internationally. Samuel Beckett depicted on an Irish commemorative coin celebrating the 100th anniversary of his birth. Of all the English-language modernists, Beckett’s work represents the most sustained attack on the realist tradition. He opened up the possibility of theatre and fiction that dispense with conventional plot and the unities of time and place in order to focus on essential components of the human condition. Václav Havel, John Banville, Aidan Higgins, Tom Stoppard, Harold Pinter and Jon Fosse have publicly stated their indebtedness to Beckett’s example. He has had a wider influence on experimental writing since the 1950s, from the Beat generation to the happenings of the 1960s and after. In an Irish context, he has exerted great influence on poets such as Derek Mahon and Thomas Kinsella, as well as writers like Trevor Joyce and Catherine Walsh who proclaim their adherence to the modernist tradition as an alternative to the dominant realist mainstream. Many major 20th-century composers including Luciano Berio, György Kurtág, Morton Feldman, Pascal Dusapin, Philip Glass, Roman Haubenstock-Ramati and Heinz Holliger have created musical works based on Beckett’s texts. His work has also influenced numerous international writers, artists and filmmakers including Edward Albee, Avigdor Arikha, Paul Auster, J. M. Coetzee, Richard Kalich, Douglas Gordon, Bruce Nauman, Anthony Minghella, and Damian Pettigrew. Beckett is one of the most widely discussed and highly prized of 20th-century authors, inspiring a critical industry to rival that which has sprung up around James Joyce. He has divided critical opinion. Some early philosophical critics, such as Sartre and Theodor Adorno, praised him, one for his revelation of absurdity, the other for his works’ critical refusal of simplicities; others such as Georg Lukács condemned him for ‘decadent’ lack of realism. Since Beckett’s death, all rights for performance of his plays are handled by the Beckett estate, currently managed by Edward Beckett (the author’s nephew). The estate has a controversial reputation for maintaining firm control over how Beckett’s plays are performed and does not grant licenses to productions that do not adhere to the writer’s stage directions. Historians interested in tracing Beckett’s blood line were, in 2004, granted access to confirmed trace samples of his DNA to conduct molecular genealogical studies to facilitate precise lineage determination. Some of the best-known pictures of Beckett were taken by photographer John Minihan, who photographed him between 1980 and 1985 and developed such a good relationship with the writer that he became, in effect, his official photographer. Some consider one of these to be among the top three photographs of the 20th century. It was the theater photographer John Haynes, however, who took possibly the most widely reproduced image of Beckett: it is used on the cover of the Knowlson biography, for instance. This portrait was taken during rehearsals of the San Quentin Drama Workshop at the Royal Court Theatre in London, where Haynes photographed many productions of Beckett’s work. An Post, the Irish postal service, issued a commemorative stamp of Beckett in 1994. The Central Bank of Ireland launched two Samuel Beckett Centenary commemorative coins on 26 April 2006: €10 Silver Coin and €20 Gold Coin. On 10 December 2009, the new bridge across the River Liffey in Dublin was opened and named the Samuel Beckett Bridge in his honour. Reminiscent of a harp on its side, it was designed by the celebrated Spanish architect Santiago Calatrava, who had also designed the James Joyce Bridge further upstream opened on Bloomsday (16 June) 2003. Attendees at the official opening ceremony included Beckett’s niece Caroline Murphy, his nephew Edward Beckett, poet Seamus Heaney and Barry McGovern. The newest ship of the Irish Naval Service, the LÉ Samuel Beckett (P61), is named for Beckett. An Ulster History Circle blue plaque in his memory is located at Portora Royal School, Enniskillen, County Fermanagh. Happy Days Enniskillen International Beckett Festival is an annual multi-arts festival celebrating the work and influence of Beckett. The festival, founded in 2011, is held at Enniskillen, Northern Ireland where Beckett spent his formative years studying at Portora Royal School. Music for three Samuel Beckett plays (Words and Music, Cascando, and …but the clouds…), was composed by Martin Pearlman which was commissioned by the 92nd Street Y in New York for the Beckett centennial and produced there and at Harvard University. Honours and awards Croix de guerre (France) Médaille de la Résistance (France) 1959 honorary doctorate from Trinity College, Dublin 1961 International Publishers’ Formentor Prize (shared with Jorge Luis Borges). 1968 Foreign Honorary Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences[67] 1969 Nobel Prize for Literature. Saoi of Aosdana (Ireland) 2016 The house that Beckett lived in in 1934 (48 Paultons Square, Chelsea, London) has received an English Heritage Blue Plaque [68] Selected works by Beckett Dramatic works / Theatre Human Wishes (c. 1936; published 1984) Eleutheria (written 1947 in French; published in French 1995, and English 1996) En attendant Godot (published 1952, performed,1953) (Waiting for Godot, pub. 1954, perf. 1955)[69] Acte sans Paroles I (1956); Act Without Words I (1957) Acte sans Paroles II (1956); Act Without Words II (1957) Fin de partie (published 1957); Endgame (published 1957) Krapp’s Last Tape (first performed 1958) Fragment de théâtre I (late 1950s); Rough for Theatre I Fragment de théâtre II (late 1950s); Rough for Theatre II Happy Days (first performed 1961); Oh les beaux jours (published 1963) Play (performed in German, as Spiel, 1963; English version 1964) Come and Go (first performed in German, then English, 1966) Breath (first performed 1969) Not I (first performed 1972) That Time (first performed 1976) Footfalls (first performed 1976) Neither (1977) (An „opera”, music by Morton Feldman) A Piece of Monologue (first performed 1979) Rockaby (first performed 1981) Ohio Impromptu (first performed 1981) Catastrophe (Catastrophe et autres dramatiques, first performed 1982) What Where (first performed 1983) All That Fall (broadcast 1957) From an Abandoned Work (broadcast 1957) Embers (broadcast 1959) Rough for Radio I (published 1976) (written in French in 1961 as Esquisse radiophonique) Rough for Radio II (published 1976) (written in French in 1961 as Pochade radiophonique) Words and Music (broadcast 1962) Cascando (broadcast:1963 French version; 1964 English translation) Eh Joe with Jack MacGowran (broadcast 1966)[70] Beginning To End with Jack MacGowran (1965) Ghost Trio (broadcast 1977) … but the clouds … (broadcast 1977) Quad I + II (broadcast 1981) Nacht und Träume (broadcast 1983); Night and Dreams, published 1984 Beckett Directs Beckett (1988/92) Film (1965) Dream of Fair to Middling Women (written 1932; published 1992) Murphy (1938); 1947 Beckett’s French version Watt (1953); 1968, Beckett’s French version Molloy (1951); English version (1955) Malone meurt (1951); Malone Dies (1956) L’innommable (1953); The Unnamable (1958) Comment c’est (1961); How It Is (1964) Mercier and Camier (written 1946, published 1970); English translation (1974) Short prose More Pricks Than Kicks (1934) „Echo’s Bones” (written 1933, published 2014) „L’Expulsé”, written 1946, in Nouvelles et Textes pour rien (1955); „The Expelled” Stories and Texts for Nothing (1967)[71] „Le Calmant”, written 1946, in Nouvelles et Textes pour rien (1955); „The Calmative”, Stories and Texts for Nothing (1967) „La Fin”, written 1946, partially published in Les Temps Modernes in 1946 as „Suite”; in Nouvelles et Textes pour rien (1955); „The End”, Stories and Texts for Nothing (1967) „Texts for Nothing”, translated into French for Nouvelles et Textes pour rien (1955); Stories and Texts for Nothing (1967)[72] „L’Image” (1959) a fragment from Comment c’est [73] ‘”Premier Amour” (1970, written 1946); translated by Beckett as „First Love”, 1973[69] Le Dépeupleur (1970); The Lost Ones (1971) Pour finir encore et autres foirades (1976); For to End Yet Again and Other Fizzles (1976) Company (1980) Mal vu mal dit (1981); Ill Seen Ill Said (1982) Worstward Ho (1983) „Stirrings Still” (1988) „As the Story was Told” (1990) The Complete Short Prose: 1929-1989, ed S. E. Gontarski. New York: Grove Press, 1995 Non-fiction „Dante…Bruno. Vico..Joyce” (1929; Beckett’s contribution to the collection Our Exagmination Round His Factification for Incamination of Work in Progress) Proust (1931) Three Dialogues (with Georges Duthuit and Jacques Putnam) (1949) Disjecta: Miscellaneous Writings and a Dramatic Fragment (1929–1967) Poetry collections Whoroscope (1930) Echo’s Bones and other Precipitates (1935) Poèmes (1968, expanded 1976, 1979, 1992) [1] Poems in English (1961) Collected Poems in English and French (1977) What is the Word (1989) Selected Poems 1930–1989 (2009) The Collected Poems of Samuel Beckett, edited, annotated by Seán Lawlor, John Pilling (2012, Faber and Faber, 2014, Grove Press) Translation collections and long works[edit] Anna Livia Plurabelle (James Joyce, French translation by Beckett and others) (1931) Negro: an Anthology (Nancy Cunard, editor) (1934) Anthology of Mexican Poems (Octavio Paz, editor) (1958) The Old Tune (Robert Pinget) (1963) What Is Surrealism? Selected Essays (André Breton) (various short pieces in the collection) FOTO: Samuel Beckett Written by: Constantin Enache Birgit Ragnhild Cullberg (3 August 1908 – 8 September 1999) was a Swedish choreographer. The daughter of bank manager Carl Cullberg and Elna Westerström, Cullberg was born in Nyköping and married from 1942 to 1949 to actor Anders Ek. She was the mother of Niklas Ek, Mats Ek, and Malin Ek. Cullberg studied ballet under Kurt Jooss-Leeder and Lilian Karina and at The Royal Ballet, London (1952–1957). In 1960, Cullberg was appointed director and choreographer at the Stockholm City Theatre. Some of her choreographies were premiered at the Royal Opera in Stockholm. Cullberg gained international recognition by founding the Cullberg Ballet in the 1960s. On her retiring in 1985, her son Mats Ek took over the ballet company. The Swedish Arts Grants Committee instituted the Cullberg scholarship in her honour, and she was awarded an honorary professorship at Stockholm University, where she had studied when she was young. She also received the French honour Commendeur des Arts et Lettres and the Italian honour Cavaliere Ufficiale. Birgit Cullberg, who has died aged 91, was one of the most prominent representatives of the realistic dance drama that emerged postwar. Her 1950 ballet of Strindberg’s Miss Julie became one of the most staged and popular ballets created in modern times. She was a pioneer of ballet created for television, winning two Prix Italia. Cullberg only started her professional training at the age of 27 and had her roots in the central European dance that emerged between the wars. She could easily have been a painter or a writer. She studied painting, and later literature at Stockholm university in the early 1930s, when her passion for dance was taking over. In 1935 the highly intellectual young woman began four years in England with the great German choreographer Kurt Jooss at Dartington. He had already created a name with his highly theatrical Tanztheater, whose socio-political emphasis appealed to young audiences tiring of classical ballet. She was captivated by Jooss’s approach and decided to devote herself entirely to dance. She was especially influenced by his emphasis on logic and meaning in the dance composition and his experiments in mixing Ausdrucks-tanz [expressive modern dance] and ballet. She returned to Sweden with a stage-dancing diploma at the outbreak of the the second world war in 1939, and formed her own group, which existed on and off throughout the 40s while she established herself on the Swedish scene. Humour is striking in her early works, finding expression in small but sharply-drawn comical studies and satires. The ability to portray a human being with a small number of characteristics was early considered „Cullberg style”. When she had a larger group at hand, she experimented with more ambitious works, as with an early one-act version of Prokofiev’s Romeo and Juliet (1944), and several with strongly political themes, all displaying her sense for creating group choreography. She sculpted with the dancers in space. Immediately after the war Cullberg resumed her study of classical ballet, which she soon started to blend with modern idiom, and she began to encounter the new type of realistic dance drama, often with strong psychological emphasis, that had developed in England, France and the United States through choreographers such as Tudor and Helpmann, Petit, Loring and de Mille. Seeing Petit’s Carmen in Paris in 1949, she realised it was possible to portray two human beings in the form of a classical pas de deux. This revelation was immediately transformed into her version of Miss Julie which brought the work, its choreographer and its principal interpreter, Elsa Marianne von Rosen, to the Royal Swedish Opera, where Cullberg became resident choreographer for six years. At the same time she established herself internationally with dance dramas, often based on literary themes and often with a strong emotional and sexual emphasis that made headlines. She created a new climate for dance in Sweden and a new era for the Royal Swedish Ballet. Cullberg’s international breakthrough came in 1957 when Copenhagen’s Royal Danish Ballet commissioned her to create Moon Reindeer. Cullberg’s name spread worldwide and in 1958 she staged Miss Julie for the American Ballet Theatre and Medea for the New York City Ballet. This led to a long association both with the Danish Ballet and Ballet Theatre and to her becoming one of the most sought after choreographers of the 50s and the 60s. Her ballets, with their strong dramatic element, found their way into almost every ballet company and Miss Julie has been staged in 36 productions, from Japan and Iran to Reykjavik and Santiago de Chile. Being confronted by her powerful, psychologically rich, leading roles has been a turning point in many a dancer’s career, among them the legendary Erik Bruhn. To give the choreographer a platform to create works in her native country, the Cullberg Ballet was founded in 1967 by the Swedish government. She was its artistic director until 1984 when her son Mats Ek took over. In the early 1960s she was captivated by television as a dance medium. With her revolutionary ideas in creating movement directly for the camera, she renewed her international fame, inspiring the BBC to produce original dance works for television. Cullberg continued to explore the medium into her 80s. One of the few women in dance history to have reached international fame as a choreographer, she is one of the greatest and most popular exponents of dramatic dance in our century. Selected choreography Vägen till Klockrike Miss Julie The Moon Reindeer History 1967 The Cullberg Ballet is founded, under the auspices of Riksteatern, by Birgit Cullberg, even then a prominent choreographer who has staged ballets in Chile, Iran, Poland, the Soviet Union, the UK and the US. The company comprises eight of the world’s top dancers, from Canada, New Zealand, Sweden, the US and Yugoslavia. The founding philosophy is that all the dancers are to be considered soloists and therefore receive the same pay. Dancers earn a monthly salary of SEK 2,000 plus daily allowance.The company builds up a repertoire of works by Birgit Cullberg and guest choreographers. 1969 The Cullberg ensemble is contracted to the new TV channel TV2 for a year. The company features in the channel’s opening night and during the 1969/70 season several ballet programmes are produced, with Red wine in green glasses attracting the most attention. Chroma-key technology creates new visual effects, allowing the dancers to move “inside” an oil painting, for example. This revolutionary approach sees the programme win the Prix Italia in 1971.The Cullberg Ballet is also awarded a gold medal for the best foreign ballet at that year’s Paris Autumn Festival. 1970 The Cullberg Ballet moves to a permanent home on Stockholm’s Jungfrugatan. Until now the company has moved from place to place, spending one memorable winter rehearsing at Gröna Lund where the building was so cold that huge fan heaters had to be brought in. 1971 The Cullberg Ballet is a major international success, giving fourteen performances in London and twenty in Paris the following year. In the space of a few years the company has attained a leading position in the world of dance. 1976 Mats Ek choreographs his first work for the Cullberg Ballet, The Officer’s Servant. He also produces Soweto and St. George and the Dragon, in which he dances the main role. Mats Ek’s major breakthrough as a choreographer comes with The House of Bernarda, a phenomenal success. The work is based on Federico García Lorca’s play The House of Bernarda Alba. 1982 Mats Ek creates his masterpiece Giselle, which has been performed by the Cullberg Ballet more than 300 times in 28 countries. 1985 Mats Ek takes over as artistic director. This does not mean any major changes for the company as Ek has been choreographing ballets for the Cullberg Ballet for several years. 1987 Mats Ek produces his own version of Swan Lake, to great public acclaim. 1989 The Cullberg Ballet moves from Jungfrugatan to the Riksteatern headquarters in Hallunda 1993 Carolyn Carlson takes over as artistic director when Mats Ek steps down. Carolyn introduces improvisation, largely a new departure for the company. 1995 Lena Wennergren-Juras, a member of the company since its inauguration, and Margareta Lidström (dancer from the Royal Swedish Opera) take over as artistic directors. The collaborative relationship with Mats Ek continues, and other guest choreographers are also invited to create works for the company. 2003 Choreographer Johan Inger takes over as artistic director. Johan Inger leaves the position in 2008. 2007 Cullbergbaletten turns 40 and is celebrated with an extremely successfull and soldout performance at Dansens Hus in Stockholm. 2010 Anna Grip takes over as artistic director and introduces the company to several site specific works both outside in parks, at festivals, and inside museums. Anna Grip also takes the initative for Cullbergbaletten to dance on smaller scale stages, and invite Canadian choreographers Benoît Lachambre and Crystal Pite, and Norwegian Ina Christel Johannessen to create for Dansens Hus small stage. Anna Grip also invites Alexander Ekman to create his first fullevening production Ekman’s Triptych – A Study of Entertainment as well as Jefta van Dinther who creates his first bigstage production in the successfull Plateau Effect which premieres at Julidans in Amsterdam in 2013. 2013 Anna Grip is the Artistic Director until 30 August 2013. An artistic board consisting of Monica Fredriksson, Jane Hopper, Lisa Drake and Thomas Zamolo is appointed until 31 December 2013. 2014 Gabriel Smeets becomes Artistic Director and introduces choreographers as Trajal Harrell, Eszter Salamon and Deborah Hay. FOTO: Birgit Cullberg Written by: Constantin Enache Birgit Ragnhild Cullberg (3 August 1908 – 8 September 1999) was a Swedish choreographer. The daughter of bank manager Carl Cullberg and Elna Westerström, Cullberg was born in Nyköping and married from 1942 to 1949 to actor Anders Ek. She was the mother of Niklas Ek, Mats Ek, and Malin Ek. Cullberg studied ballet under Kurt Jooss-Leeder and Lilian Karina and at The Royal Ballet, London (1952–1957). In 1960, Cullberg was appointed director and choreographer at the Stockholm City Theatre. Some of her choreographies were premiered at the Royal Opera in Stockholm. Cullberg gained international recognition by founding the Cullberg Ballet in the 1960s. On her retiring in 1985, her son Mats Ek took over the ballet company. The Swedish Arts Grants Committee instituted the Cullberg scholarship in her honour, and she was awarded an honorary professorship at Stockholm University, where she had studied when she was young. She also received the French honour Commendeur des Arts et Lettres and the Italian honour Cavaliere Ufficiale. Birgit Cullberg, who has died aged 91, was one of the most prominent representatives of the realistic dance drama that emerged postwar. Her 1950 ballet of Strindberg’s Miss Julie became one of the most staged and popular ballets created in modern times. She was a pioneer of ballet created for television, winning two Prix Italia. Cullberg only started her professional training at the age of 27 and had her roots in the central European dance that emerged between the wars. She could easily have been a painter or a writer. She studied painting, and later literature at Stockholm university in the early 1930s, when her passion for dance was taking over. In 1935 the highly intellectual young woman began four years in England with the great German choreographer Kurt Jooss at Dartington. He had already created a name with his highly theatrical Tanztheater, whose socio-political emphasis appealed to young audiences tiring of classical ballet. She was captivated by Jooss’s approach and decided to devote herself entirely to dance. She was especially influenced by his emphasis on logic and meaning in the dance composition and his experiments in mixing Ausdrucks-tanz [expressive modern dance] and ballet. She returned to Sweden with a stage-dancing diploma at the outbreak of the the second world war in 1939, and formed her own group, which existed on and off throughout the 40s while she established herself on the Swedish scene. Humour is striking in her early works, finding expression in small but sharply-drawn comical studies and satires. The ability to portray a human being with a small number of characteristics was early considered „Cullberg style”. When she had a larger group at hand, she experimented with more ambitious works, as with an early one-act version of Prokofiev’s Romeo and Juliet (1944), and several with strongly political themes, all displaying her sense for creating group choreography. She sculpted with the dancers in space. Immediately after the war Cullberg resumed her study of classical ballet, which she soon started to blend with modern idiom, and she began to encounter the new type of realistic dance drama, often with strong psychological emphasis, that had developed in England, France and the United States through choreographers such as Tudor and Helpmann, Petit, Loring and de Mille. Seeing Petit’s Carmen in Paris in 1949, she realised it was possible to portray two human beings in the form of a classical pas de deux. This revelation was immediately transformed into her version of Miss Julie which brought the work, its choreographer and its principal interpreter, Elsa Marianne von Rosen, to the Royal Swedish Opera, where Cullberg became resident choreographer for six years. At the same time she established herself internationally with dance dramas, often based on literary themes and often with a strong emotional and sexual emphasis that made headlines. She created a new climate for dance in Sweden and a new era for the Royal Swedish Ballet. Cullberg’s international breakthrough came in 1957 when Copenhagen’s Royal Danish Ballet commissioned her to create Moon Reindeer. Cullberg’s name spread worldwide and in 1958 she staged Miss Julie for the American Ballet Theatre and Medea for the New York City Ballet. This led to a long association both with the Danish Ballet and Ballet Theatre and to her becoming one of the most sought after choreographers of the 50s and the 60s. Her ballets, with their strong dramatic element, found their way into almost every ballet company and Miss Julie has been staged in 36 productions, from Japan and Iran to Reykjavik and Santiago de Chile. Being confronted by her powerful, psychologically rich, leading roles has been a turning point in many a dancer’s career, among them the legendary Erik Bruhn. To give the choreographer a platform to create works in her native country, the Cullberg Ballet was founded in 1967 by the Swedish government. She was its artistic director until 1984 when her son Mats Ek took over. In the early 1960s she was captivated by television as a dance medium. With her revolutionary ideas in creating movement directly for the camera, she renewed her international fame, inspiring the BBC to produce original dance works for television. Cullberg continued to explore the medium into her 80s. One of the few women in dance history to have reached international fame as a choreographer, she is one of the greatest and most popular exponents of dramatic dance in our century. Selected choreography Vägen till Klockrike The Moon Reindeer 1967 The Cullberg Ballet is founded, under the auspices of Riksteatern, by Birgit Cullberg, even then a prominent choreographer who has staged ballets in Chile, Iran, Poland, the Soviet Union, the UK and the US. The company comprises eight of the world’s top dancers, from Canada, New Zealand, Sweden, the US and Yugoslavia. The founding philosophy is that all the dancers are to be considered soloists and therefore receive the same pay. Dancers earn a monthly salary of SEK 2,000 plus daily allowance.The company builds up a repertoire of works by Birgit Cullberg and guest choreographers. 1969 The Cullberg ensemble is contracted to the new TV channel TV2 for a year. The company features in the channel’s opening night and during the 1969/70 season several ballet programmes are produced, with Red wine in green glasses attracting the most attention. Chroma-key technology creates new visual effects, allowing the dancers to move “inside” an oil painting, for example. This revolutionary approach sees the programme win the Prix Italia in 1971.The Cullberg Ballet is also awarded a gold medal for the best foreign ballet at that year’s Paris Autumn Festival. 1970 The Cullberg Ballet moves to a permanent home on Stockholm’s Jungfrugatan. Until now the company has moved from place to place, spending one memorable winter rehearsing at Gröna Lund where the building was so cold that huge fan heaters had to be brought in. 1971 The Cullberg Ballet is a major international success, giving fourteen performances in London and twenty in Paris the following year. In the space of a few years the company has attained a leading position in the world of dance. 1976 Mats Ek choreographs his first work for the Cullberg Ballet, The Officer’s Servant. He also produces Soweto and St. George and the Dragon, in which he dances the main role. Mats Ek’s major breakthrough as a choreographer comes with The House of Bernarda, a phenomenal success. The work is based on Federico García Lorca’s play The House of Bernarda Alba. 1982 Mats Ek creates his masterpiece Giselle, which has been performed by the Cullberg Ballet more than 300 times in 28 countries. 1985 Mats Ek takes over as artistic director. This does not mean any major changes for the company as Ek has been choreographing ballets for the Cullberg Ballet for several years. 1987 Mats Ek produces his own version of Swan Lake, to great public acclaim. 1989 The Cullberg Ballet moves from Jungfrugatan to the Riksteatern headquarters in Hallunda 1993 Carolyn Carlson takes over as artistic director when Mats Ek steps down. Carolyn introduces improvisation, largely a new departure for the company. 1995 Lena Wennergren-Juras, a member of the company since its inauguration, and Margareta Lidström (dancer from the Royal Swedish Opera) take over as artistic directors. The collaborative relationship with Mats Ek continues, and other guest choreographers are also invited to create works for the company. 2003 Choreographer Johan Inger takes over as artistic director. Johan Inger leaves the position in 2008. 2007 Cullbergbaletten turns 40 and is celebrated with an extremely successfull and soldout performance at Dansens Hus in Stockholm. 2010 Anna Grip takes over as artistic director and introduces the company to several site specific works both outside in parks, at festivals, and inside museums. Anna Grip also takes the initative for Cullbergbaletten to dance on smaller scale stages, and invite Canadian choreographers Benoît Lachambre and Crystal Pite, and Norwegian Ina Christel Johannessen to create for Dansens Hus small stage. Anna Grip also invites Alexander Ekman to create his first fullevening production Ekman’s Triptych – A Study of Entertainment as well as Jefta van Dinther who creates his first bigstage production in the successfull Plateau Effect which premieres at Julidans in Amsterdam in 2013. 2013 Anna Grip is the Artistic Director until 30 August 2013. An artistic board consisting of Monica Fredriksson, Jane Hopper, Lisa Drake and Thomas Zamolo is appointed until 31 December 2013. 2014 Gabriel Smeets becomes Artistic Director and introduces choreographers as Trajal Harrell, Eszter Salamon and Deborah Hay. FOTO: Birgit Cullberg Written by: Constantin Enache Morgan Freeman (born June 1, 1937) is an American actor, producer and narrator. Freeman won an Academy Award in 2005 for Best Supporting Actor with Million Dollar Baby (2004), and he has received Oscar nominations for his performances in Street Smart (1987), Driving Miss Daisy (1989), The Shawshank Redemption (1994) and Invictus (2009). He has also won a Golden Globe Award and a Screen Actors Guild Award. Freeman has appeared in many other box office hits, including Glory (1989), Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves (1991), Seven (1995), Deep Impact (1998), The Sum of All Fears (2002), Bruce Almighty (2003), The Dark Knight Trilogy (2005–2012), The Lego Movie (2014), and Lucy (2014). He is known for his distinctively smooth, deep voice and his skill at narration. He got his break as part of the cast of the 1970s children’s program The Electric Company. Morgan Freeman is ranked as the 3rd highest box office star with over $4.316 billion total box office gross, an average of $74.4 million per film. Early life and education Morgan Freeman was born on June 1, 1937 in Memphis, Tennessee. He is the son of Mayme Edna (née Revere; 1912–2000), a teacher, and Morgan Porterfield Freeman, a barber who died on April 27, 1961, from cirrhosis. He has three older siblings. According to a DNA analysis, some of his ancestors were from Niger. Freeman was sent as an infant to his paternal grandmother in Charleston, Mississippi. He moved frequently during his childhood, living in Greenwood, Mississippi; Gary, Indiana; and finally Chicago, Illinois. Freeman made his acting debut at age nine, playing the lead role in a school play. He then attended Broad Street High School, a building which serves today as Threadgill Elementary School, in Greenwood, Mississippi. At age 12, he won a statewide drama competition, and while still at Broad Street High School, he performed in a radio show based in Nashville, Tennessee. In 1955, he graduated from Broad Street, but turned down a partial drama scholarship from Jackson State University, opting instead to enlist in the United States Air Force and served as an Automatic Tracking Radar Repairman, rising to the rank of Airman 1st Class. Freeman’s service portrait appears in his character’s funeral scene in The Bucket List. After four years in the military, he moved to Los Angeles, California, where he took acting lessons at the Pasadena Playhouse and dancing lessons in San Francisco in the early 1960s and worked as a transcript clerk at Los Angeles City College. During this period, Freeman also lived in New York City, working as a dancer at the 1964 World’s Fair, and in San Francisco, where he was a member of the Opera Ring musical theater group. He acted in a touring company version of The Royal Hunt of the Sun, and also appeared as an extra in the 1965 film The Pawnbroker. Freeman made his off-Broadway debut in 1967, opposite Viveca Lindfors in The Nigger Lovers (about the Freedom Riders during the American Civil Rights Movement), before debuting on Broadway in 1968’s all-black version of Hello, Dolly! which also starred Pearl Bailey and Cab Calloway. He continued to be involved in theater work and received the Obie Award in 1980 for the title role in Coriolanus. In 1984, he received his second Obie Award for his role as the preacher in The Gospel at Colonus. Freeman also won a Drama Desk Award and a Clarence Derwent Award for his role as a wino in The Mighty Gents. He received his third Obie Award for his role as a chauffeur for a Jewish widow in Driving Miss Daisy, which was adapted for the screen in 1989. Career Although his first credited film appearance was in 1971’s Who Says I Can’t Ride a Rainbow?, Freeman first became known in the American media through roles on the soap opera Another World and the PBS kids’ show The Electric Company (notably as Easy Reader, Mel Mounds the DJ, and Vincent the Vegetable Vampire. During his tenure with The Electric Company, „(i)t was a very unhappy period in his life,” according to Joan Ganz Cooney. Freeman himself admitted in an interview that he never thinks about his tenure with the show at all. Since then, Freeman has considered his Street Smart (1987) character Fast Black, rather than any of the characters he played in The Electric Company, to be his breakthrough role. Beginning in the mid-1980s, Freeman began playing prominent supporting roles in many feature films, earning him a reputation for depicting wise, fatherly characters. As he gained fame, he went on to bigger roles in films such as the chauffeur Hoke in Driving Miss Daisy, and Sergeant Major Rawlins in Glory (both in 1989). In 1994, he portrayed Red, the redeemed convict in the acclaimed The Shawshank Redemption. In the same year he was a member of the jury at the 44th Berlin International Film Festival. He also starred in such films as Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves, Unforgiven, Seven, and Deep Impact. In 1997, Freeman, together with Lori McCreary, founded the film production company Revelations Entertainment, and the two co-head its sister online film distribution company ClickStar. Freeman also hosts the channel Our Space on ClickStar, with specially crafted film clips in which he shares his love for the sciences, especially space exploration and aeronautics. After three previous nominations—a supporting actor nomination for Street Smart, and leading actor nominations for Driving Miss Daisy and The Shawshank Redemption—he won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his performance in Million Dollar Baby at the 77th Academy Awards.[9] Freeman is recognized for his distinctive voice, making him a frequent choice for narration. In 2005 alone, he provided narration for two films, War of the Worlds and the Academy Award-winning documentary film March of the Penguins. Freeman appeared as God in the hit film Bruce Almighty and its sequel, Evan Almighty, as well as Lucius Fox in the critical and commercial success Batman Begins and its sequels, The Dark Knight and The Dark Knight Rises. He starred in Rob Reiner’s 2007 film The Bucket List, opposite Jack Nicholson. He teamed with Christopher Walken and William H. Macy for the comedy The Maiden Heist, which was released direct to video due to financial problems with the distribution company. In 2008, Freeman returned to Broadway to co-star with Frances McDormand and Peter Gallagher for a limited engagement of Clifford Odets’s play, The Country Girl, directed by Mike Nichols. He had wanted to do a film based on Nelson Mandela for some time. At first he tried to get Mandela’s autobiography Long Walk to Freedom adapted into a finished script, but it was not finalized. In 2007, he purchased the film rights to a book by John Carlin, Playing the Enemy: Nelson Mandela and the Game That Made a Nation. Clint Eastwood directed the Nelson Mandela bio-pic titled Invictus, starring Freeman as Mandela and Matt Damon as rugby team captain Francois Pienaar. In 2010, Freeman co-starred alongside Bruce Willis in Red. In 2013, Freeman appeared in the action-thriller Olympus Has Fallen, the science fiction drama Oblivion, and the comedy Last Vegas. In 2014, he co-starred in the action film Lucy. In 2015, Freeman played the Chief Justice of the United States in the season two premiere of Madam Secretary (Freeman is also one of the series’ executive producers). Other work Freeman made his directorial debut in 1993 with Bopha! for Paramount Pictures. In July 2009, Freeman was one of the presenters at the 46664 Concert celebrating Nelson Mandela’s birthday at Radio City Music Hall in New York City. Freeman was the first American to record a par on Legend Golf & Safari Resort’s Extreme 19th hole. Effective January 4, 2010, Freeman replaced Walter Cronkite as the voiceover introduction to the CBS Evening News featuring Katie Couric as news anchor. CBS cited the need for consistency in introductions for regular news broadcasts and special reports as the basis for the change.[24] As of 2010, Freeman is the host and narrator of the Discovery Channel television show, focused on physics outreach, Through the Wormhole. He was featured on the opening track to B.o.B’s second album Strange Clouds. The track „Bombs Away” features a prologue and epilogue (which leads into a musical outro) spoken by Freeman. In 2011, Freeman was featured with John Lithgow in the Broadway debut of Dustin Lance Black’s play, 8, a staged reenactment of Perry v. Brown, the federal trial that overturned California’s Proposition 8 ban on same-sex marriage. Freeman played Attorney David Boies. The production was held at the Eugene O’Neill Theatre in New York City to raise money for the American Foundation for Equal Rights. In 2015 Freeman directed „The Show Must Go On,” the season two premiere of Madam Secretary. Personal life From his early life, Freeman has two extramarital children; one of them is Alfonso Freeman. Freeman was married to Jeanette Adair Bradshaw from October 22, 1967, until November 18, 1979. He married Myrna Colley-Lee on June 16, 1984. The couple separated in December 2007. Freeman’s attorney and business partner Bill Luckett announced in August 2008 that Freeman and his wife were in divorce proceedings. On September 15, 2010, their divorce was finalized in Mississippi. Freeman and Colley-Lee adopted Freeman’s stepgranddaughter from his first marriage, E’dena Hines, and raised her together. On August 16, 2015, 33-year-old Hines was murdered in New York City. In 2008, the TV series African American Lives 2 revealed that some of Freeman’s great-great-grandparents were slaves who migrated from North Carolina to Mississippi. Freeman discovered that his Caucasian maternal great-great-grandfather had lived with, and was buried beside, Freeman’s African-American great-great-grandmother (in the segregated South, the two could not marry legally at the time). A DNA test on the series stated that he is descended in part from the Songhai and Tuareg peoples of Niger. Religious views In a 2012 interview with TheWrap, Freeman was asked if he considered himself atheist or agnostic. He replied, „It’s a hard question because as I said at the start, I think we invented God. So if I believe in God, and I do, it’s because I think I’m God.” Activism Charitable work In 2004, Freeman and others formed the Grenada Relief Fund to aid people affected by Hurricane Ivan on the island of Grenada. The fund has since become PLANIT NOW, an organization that seeks to provide preparedness resources for people living in areas afflicted by hurricanes and severe storms. Freeman has worked on narrating small clips for global organizations, such as One Earth, whose goals include raising awareness of environmental issues. He has narrated the clip „Why Are We Here,” which can be viewed on One Earth’s website. Freeman has donated money to the Mississippi Horse Park in Starkville, Mississippi. The park is part of Mississippi State University and Freeman has several horses that he takes there. Politics Freeman endorsed Barack Obama’s candidacy for the 2008 presidential election, although he stated that he would not join Obama’s campaign. He narrates for The Hall of Presidents with Barack Obama, who has been added to the exhibit. The Hall of Presidents re-opened on July 4, 2009, at Walt Disney World Resort in Orlando, Florida. Freeman joined President Bill Clinton, USA Bid Committee Chairman Sunil Gulati, and USMNT midfielder Landon Donovan on Wednesday, December 1, 2010, in Zurich for the U.S. bid committee’s final presentation to FIFA for the 2022 FIFA World Cup. On day 4 of the 2016 Democratic National Convention, Morgan Freeman provided the voiceover for the video introduction of Democratic Presidential candidate Hillary Clinton. Filmography Brubaker (1980) Marie (1985) Street Smart (1987) Glory (1989) Driving Miss Daisy (1989) Lean on Me (1989) Johnny Handsome (1989) Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves (1991) Unforgiven (1992) The Shawshank Redemption (1994) Seven (1995) Moll Flanders (1996) Amistad (1997) Kiss the Girls (1997) Deep Impact (1998) Nurse Betty (2000) Along Came a Spider (2001) The Sum of All Fears (2002) High Crimes (2002) Bruce Almighty (2003) Million Dollar Baby (2004) An Unfinished Life (2005) Batman Begins (2005) Lucky Number Slevin (2006) 10 Items or Less (2006) Evan Almighty (2007) Gone, Baby, Gone (2007) The Bucket List (2007) Feast of Love (2007) Wanted (2008) The Dark Knight (2008) Invictus (2009) RED (2010) Dolphin Tale (2011) The Dark Knight Rises (2012) The Magic of Belle Isle (2012) Olympus Has Fallen (2013) Oblivion (2013) Now You See Me (2013) Last Vegas (2013) The Lego Movie (2014) Transcendence (2014) Lucy (2014) Dolphin Tale 2 (2014) Momentum (2015) Ted 2 (2015) London Has Fallen (2016) Now You See Me 2 (2016) Awards and honors On October 28, 2006, Freeman was honored at the first Mississippi’s Best Awards in Jackson, Mississippi, with the Lifetime Achievement Award for his works on and off the big screen. He received an honorary degree of Doctor of Arts and Letters from Delta State University during the school’s commencement exercises on May 13, 2006. In 2013, Boston University presented him with an honorary degree of Doctor of Humane Letters. On November 12, 2014, he was bestowed the honour of Freedom of the City by the City of London. FOTO: Morgan Freeman Written by: Constantin Enache Morgan Freeman (born June 1, 1937) is an American actor, producer and narrator. Freeman won an Academy Award in 2005 for Best Supporting Actor with Million Dollar Baby (2004), and he has received Oscar nominations for his performances in Street Smart (1987), Driving Miss Daisy (1989), The Shawshank Redemption (1994) and Invictus (2009). He has also won a Golden Globe Award and a Screen Actors Guild Award. Freeman has appeared in many other box office hits, including Glory (1989), Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves (1991), Seven (1995), Deep Impact (1998), The Sum of All Fears (2002), Bruce Almighty (2003), The Dark Knight Trilogy (2005–2012), The Lego Movie (2014), and Lucy (2014). He is known for his distinctively smooth, deep voice and his skill at narration. He got his break as part of the cast of the 1970s children’s program The Electric Company. Morgan Freeman is ranked as the 3rd highest box office star with over $4.316 billion total box office gross, an average of $74.4 million per film. Early life and education Morgan Freeman was born on June 1, 1937 in Memphis, Tennessee. He is the son of Mayme Edna (née Revere; 1912–2000), a teacher, and Morgan Porterfield Freeman, a barber who died on April 27, 1961, from cirrhosis. He has three older siblings. According to a DNA analysis, some of his ancestors were from Niger. Freeman was sent as an infant to his paternal grandmother in Charleston, Mississippi. He moved frequently during his childhood, living in Greenwood, Mississippi; Gary, Indiana; and finally Chicago, Illinois. Freeman made his acting debut at age nine, playing the lead role in a school play. He then attended Broad Street High School, a building which serves today as Threadgill Elementary School, in Greenwood, Mississippi. At age 12, he won a statewide drama competition, and while still at Broad Street High School, he performed in a radio show based in Nashville, Tennessee. In 1955, he graduated from Broad Street, but turned down a partial drama scholarship from Jackson State University, opting instead to enlist in the United States Air Force and served as an Automatic Tracking Radar Repairman, rising to the rank of Airman 1st Class. Freeman’s service portrait appears in his character’s funeral scene in The Bucket List. After four years in the military, he moved to Los Angeles, California, where he took acting lessons at the Pasadena Playhouse and dancing lessons in San Francisco in the early 1960s and worked as a transcript clerk at Los Angeles City College. During this period, Freeman also lived in New York City, working as a dancer at the 1964 World’s Fair, and in San Francisco, where he was a member of the Opera Ring musical theater group. He acted in a touring company version of The Royal Hunt of the Sun, and also appeared as an extra in the 1965 film The Pawnbroker. Freeman made his off-Broadway debut in 1967, opposite Viveca Lindfors in The Nigger Lovers (about the Freedom Riders during the American Civil Rights Movement), before debuting on Broadway in 1968’s all-black version of Hello, Dolly! which also starred Pearl Bailey and Cab Calloway. He continued to be involved in theater work and received the Obie Award in 1980 for the title role in Coriolanus. In 1984, he received his second Obie Award for his role as the preacher in The Gospel at Colonus. Freeman also won a Drama Desk Award and a Clarence Derwent Award for his role as a wino in The Mighty Gents. He received his third Obie Award for his role as a chauffeur for a Jewish widow in Driving Miss Daisy, which was adapted for the screen in 1989. Although his first credited film appearance was in 1971’s Who Says I Can’t Ride a Rainbow?, Freeman first became known in the American media through roles on the soap opera Another World and the PBS kids’ show The Electric Company (notably as Easy Reader, Mel Mounds the DJ, and Vincent the Vegetable Vampire. During his tenure with The Electric Company, „(i)t was a very unhappy period in his life,” according to Joan Ganz Cooney. Freeman himself admitted in an interview that he never thinks about his tenure with the show at all. Since then, Freeman has considered his Street Smart (1987) character Fast Black, rather than any of the characters he played in The Electric Company, to be his breakthrough role. Beginning in the mid-1980s, Freeman began playing prominent supporting roles in many feature films, earning him a reputation for depicting wise, fatherly characters. As he gained fame, he went on to bigger roles in films such as the chauffeur Hoke in Driving Miss Daisy, and Sergeant Major Rawlins in Glory (both in 1989). In 1994, he portrayed Red, the redeemed convict in the acclaimed The Shawshank Redemption. In the same year he was a member of the jury at the 44th Berlin International Film Festival. He also starred in such films as Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves, Unforgiven, Seven, and Deep Impact. In 1997, Freeman, together with Lori McCreary, founded the film production company Revelations Entertainment, and the two co-head its sister online film distribution company ClickStar. Freeman also hosts the channel Our Space on ClickStar, with specially crafted film clips in which he shares his love for the sciences, especially space exploration and aeronautics. After three previous nominations—a supporting actor nomination for Street Smart, and leading actor nominations for Driving Miss Daisy and The Shawshank Redemption—he won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his performance in Million Dollar Baby at the 77th Academy Awards.[9] Freeman is recognized for his distinctive voice, making him a frequent choice for narration. In 2005 alone, he provided narration for two films, War of the Worlds and the Academy Award-winning documentary film March of the Penguins. Freeman appeared as God in the hit film Bruce Almighty and its sequel, Evan Almighty, as well as Lucius Fox in the critical and commercial success Batman Begins and its sequels, The Dark Knight and The Dark Knight Rises. He starred in Rob Reiner’s 2007 film The Bucket List, opposite Jack Nicholson. He teamed with Christopher Walken and William H. Macy for the comedy The Maiden Heist, which was released direct to video due to financial problems with the distribution company. In 2008, Freeman returned to Broadway to co-star with Frances McDormand and Peter Gallagher for a limited engagement of Clifford Odets’s play, The Country Girl, directed by Mike Nichols. He had wanted to do a film based on Nelson Mandela for some time. At first he tried to get Mandela’s autobiography Long Walk to Freedom adapted into a finished script, but it was not finalized. In 2007, he purchased the film rights to a book by John Carlin, Playing the Enemy: Nelson Mandela and the Game That Made a Nation. Clint Eastwood directed the Nelson Mandela bio-pic titled Invictus, starring Freeman as Mandela and Matt Damon as rugby team captain Francois Pienaar. In 2010, Freeman co-starred alongside Bruce Willis in Red. In 2013, Freeman appeared in the action-thriller Olympus Has Fallen, the science fiction drama Oblivion, and the comedy Last Vegas. In 2014, he co-starred in the action film Lucy. In 2015, Freeman played the Chief Justice of the United States in the season two premiere of Madam Secretary (Freeman is also one of the series’ executive producers). Freeman made his directorial debut in 1993 with Bopha! for Paramount Pictures. In July 2009, Freeman was one of the presenters at the 46664 Concert celebrating Nelson Mandela’s birthday at Radio City Music Hall in New York City. Freeman was the first American to record a par on Legend Golf & Safari Resort’s Extreme 19th hole. Effective January 4, 2010, Freeman replaced Walter Cronkite as the voiceover introduction to the CBS Evening News featuring Katie Couric as news anchor. CBS cited the need for consistency in introductions for regular news broadcasts and special reports as the basis for the change.[24] As of 2010, Freeman is the host and narrator of the Discovery Channel television show, focused on physics outreach, Through the Wormhole. He was featured on the opening track to B.o.B’s second album Strange Clouds. The track „Bombs Away” features a prologue and epilogue (which leads into a musical outro) spoken by Freeman. In 2011, Freeman was featured with John Lithgow in the Broadway debut of Dustin Lance Black’s play, 8, a staged reenactment of Perry v. Brown, the federal trial that overturned California’s Proposition 8 ban on same-sex marriage. Freeman played Attorney David Boies. The production was held at the Eugene O’Neill Theatre in New York City to raise money for the American Foundation for Equal Rights. In 2015 Freeman directed „The Show Must Go On,” the season two premiere of Madam Secretary. Personal life From his early life, Freeman has two extramarital children; one of them is Alfonso Freeman. Freeman was married to Jeanette Adair Bradshaw from October 22, 1967, until November 18, 1979. He married Myrna Colley-Lee on June 16, 1984. The couple separated in December 2007. Freeman’s attorney and business partner Bill Luckett announced in August 2008 that Freeman and his wife were in divorce proceedings. On September 15, 2010, their divorce was finalized in Mississippi. Freeman and Colley-Lee adopted Freeman’s stepgranddaughter from his first marriage, E’dena Hines, and raised her together. On August 16, 2015, 33-year-old Hines was murdered in New York City. In 2008, the TV series African American Lives 2 revealed that some of Freeman’s great-great-grandparents were slaves who migrated from North Carolina to Mississippi. Freeman discovered that his Caucasian maternal great-great-grandfather had lived with, and was buried beside, Freeman’s African-American great-great-grandmother (in the segregated South, the two could not marry legally at the time). A DNA test on the series stated that he is descended in part from the Songhai and Tuareg peoples of Niger. Religious views In a 2012 interview with TheWrap, Freeman was asked if he considered himself atheist or agnostic. He replied, „It’s a hard question because as I said at the start, I think we invented God. So if I believe in God, and I do, it’s because I think I’m God.” Charitable work In 2004, Freeman and others formed the Grenada Relief Fund to aid people affected by Hurricane Ivan on the island of Grenada. The fund has since become PLANIT NOW, an organization that seeks to provide preparedness resources for people living in areas afflicted by hurricanes and severe storms. Freeman has worked on narrating small clips for global organizations, such as One Earth, whose goals include raising awareness of environmental issues. He has narrated the clip „Why Are We Here,” which can be viewed on One Earth’s website. Freeman has donated money to the Mississippi Horse Park in Starkville, Mississippi. The park is part of Mississippi State University and Freeman has several horses that he takes there. Freeman endorsed Barack Obama’s candidacy for the 2008 presidential election, although he stated that he would not join Obama’s campaign. He narrates for The Hall of Presidents with Barack Obama, who has been added to the exhibit. The Hall of Presidents re-opened on July 4, 2009, at Walt Disney World Resort in Orlando, Florida. Freeman joined President Bill Clinton, USA Bid Committee Chairman Sunil Gulati, and USMNT midfielder Landon Donovan on Wednesday, December 1, 2010, in Zurich for the U.S. bid committee’s final presentation to FIFA for the 2022 FIFA World Cup. On day 4 of the 2016 Democratic National Convention, Morgan Freeman provided the voiceover for the video introduction of Democratic Presidential candidate Hillary Clinton. Filmography Brubaker (1980) Marie (1985) Street Smart (1987) Glory (1989) Driving Miss Daisy (1989) Lean on Me (1989) Johnny Handsome (1989) Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves (1991) Unforgiven (1992) The Shawshank Redemption (1994) Seven (1995) Moll Flanders (1996) Amistad (1997) Kiss the Girls (1997) Deep Impact (1998) Nurse Betty (2000) Along Came a Spider (2001) The Sum of All Fears (2002) High Crimes (2002) Bruce Almighty (2003) Million Dollar Baby (2004) An Unfinished Life (2005) Batman Begins (2005) Lucky Number Slevin (2006) 10 Items or Less (2006) Evan Almighty (2007) Gone, Baby, Gone (2007) The Bucket List (2007) Feast of Love (2007) Wanted (2008) The Dark Knight (2008) Invictus (2009) Dolphin Tale (2011) The Dark Knight Rises (2012) The Magic of Belle Isle (2012) Olympus Has Fallen (2013) Oblivion (2013) Now You See Me (2013) Last Vegas (2013) The Lego Movie (2014) Transcendence (2014) Lucy (2014) Dolphin Tale 2 (2014) Momentum (2015) Ted 2 (2015) London Has Fallen (2016) Now You See Me 2 (2016) Awards and honors On October 28, 2006, Freeman was honored at the first Mississippi’s Best Awards in Jackson, Mississippi, with the Lifetime Achievement Award for his works on and off the big screen. He received an honorary degree of Doctor of Arts and Letters from Delta State University during the school’s commencement exercises on May 13, 2006. In 2013, Boston University presented him with an honorary degree of Doctor of Humane Letters. On November 12, 2014, he was bestowed the honour of Freedom of the City by the City of London. FOTO: Morgan Freeman Written by: Constantin Enache Silviu Purcărete (n. 5 aprilie 1950, București) este un regizor de operă și de teatru român. Silviu Purcărete a absolvit secția de regie a IATC-ului în 1974. După colaborările cu Teatrul din Piatra Neamț (Romeo și Julieta de Shakespeare) și Teatrul din Constanța (Ecuba de Euripide, Miles Gloriosus de Plaut), începând din 1978 lucrează la Teatrul Mic din București (Giraudoux, Sartre, Shakespeare) și devine professor la Institutului de Artă Teatrală și Cinematografică. În 1986 pune în scenă un spectacol cu piesa Campiello(Piațeta) de Goldoni cu care câștigă Premiul Național pentru Teatru. În anul 1992 e numit director artistic al Teatrului Bulandra din București. Numele său e legat în principal de colaborarea cu Teatrul Național din Craiova cu care prezintă Piticul din grădina de vară de D.R.Popescu (1989), Ubu rex cu scene din Macbeth, după Alfred Jarry și W.Shakespeare (1990), Titus Andronicus de W. Shakespeare (1992), Phaedra, după Seneca și Euripide (1993), Orestia (1998, după Eschil, A douăsprezecea noapte, după W. Shakespeare (2004), Măsură pentru măsură de W. Shakespeare (2008), Furtuna, după W. Shakespeare (2012). Multe dintre spectacolele sale montate la Craiova (Titus Andronicus, Ubu Rex, Phaedra, A douăsprezecea noapte] au fost invitate la numeroase festivaluri din intreaga lume (Avignon, Edinburgh, Tokio, Melbourne, Montreal, Glasgow, Bath, Varna, Gdansk, Sarajevo). În anul 1996 devine director al Centrului Dramatic din Limoges pentru care produce, printre altele Orestia, Trei surori și Don Juan și unde, doi ani după creează o școală pentru tineri actori. După evenimentele din 1989 a pus în scenă Decameronul, la Teatrul Anton Pann din Râmnicu Vâlcea, iar în 1995, montează (având și sprijinul unor producători britanici) unul dintre cele mai îndrăznețțe proiecte teatrale ale acelor ani Danaidele într-o coproducție cu același Teatru național din Craiova, premieră care a avut o distribuție record de peste 100 de interpreți, printre care Radu Beligan, Coca Bloos și mulți alții. Spectacolul a fost apoi invitat la cele mai importante festivaluri internaționale, bucurându-se de un succes deosebit. Din anul 2001 până în prezent a regizat nu mai puțin de șapte spectacole la Teatrul Național „Radu Stanca” din Sibiu și anume: Pilafuri și parfum de măgar, exercițiu după Cartea celor o mie și una de nopți, care a avut premiera în 2001, Cumnata lui Pantagruel, după scrieri de François Rabelais (2003), Așteptându-l pe Godot de Samuel Beckett (2005), deja legendarul Faust după J. W. Goethe (2007), Lulu de Frank Wedekind (2008) și Metamorfoze după Ovidiu (2009), D’ale carnavalului, de Ion Luca Caragiale (2011). În străinătate pune în scenă și opere lirice printre care: La Bohème de Giacomo Puccini (Essen), Parsifal de Richard Wagner (Scottish Opera), Roberto Devereux de Gaetano Donizetti (Wiener Staatsoper), Castor et Polux de Jean-Philippe Rameau (Opera Bonn), Îngerul de foc de Serghei Prokofiev (Csokonai Theatre Debrecen). Regizează în Regatul Unit piesele teatrale Decameronul, Phaedra și Danaidele (Glasgow), Orestia (Lyric Hammersmith), Ubu Rex (Edinburgh International Festival) și Furtuna (Nottingham Playhouse), iar in 2007 Macbett de Eugen Ionescu pentru Royal Shakespeare Company. În 2002 înființează propria sa companie teatrală. Troilus și Cresida a fost prima sa colaborare cu Teatrul Katona József din Budapesta. Spectacolul a fost prezentat în 2006 la București în cadrul Festivalului Internațional Shakespeare. Din 2003, Silviu Purcărete e membru cu titlu personal al Uniunii Teatrelor din Europa. Spectacole de referinţă Romeo şi Julieta de William Shakespeare, Teatrul Tineretului din Piatra Neamţ, 1974 Miles Gloriosus de Plaut, Teatrul Dramatic din Constanţa, 1976 Legendele Atrizilor, adaptare după Eschil, Sofocle, Euripide, montare în spaţiul natural al ruinelor cetăţii Histria, 1978 Hecuba de Euripide, Teatrul Dramatic din Constanţa, Premiul ATM pentru regie, 1982 Diavolul şi Bunul Dumnezeu de Jean Paul Sartre, Teatrul Mic, Premiul ATM, 1982 Il Campielo (Piaţeta) de Goldoni, Teatrul Tineretului din Piatra Neamţ, premiul ATM, 1986 O scrisoare pierdută de I.l.Caragiale, Teatrul Mic, Premiul special ATM, 1988 Piticul din grădina de vară de D.R.Popescu, Teatrul Naţional din Craiova, Marele Premiu al UNITER, 1989 Ubu Rex cu scene din Macbeth după Alfred Jarry şi William Shakespeare, Teatrul Naţional din Craiova; Marele Premiu al Criticii şi Premiul Hamada al Festivalului Internaţional de la Edinburgh; Premiul UNITER, Marele Premiu la Festivalul Naţional de Teatru „I.L.Caragiale” (ediţia a II-a), 1990 Titus Andronicus de William Shakespeare – prima reprezentare a piesei în România, la Teatrul Naţional din Craiova; Marele Premiu la Festivalul Naţional de Teatru, ed.a III-a şi Trofeul Oraşului Bucureşti; Premiul UNITER, 1992 Teatrul Comic de Goldoni, Teatrul Bulandra, 1992 Decameronul 645 – scenariu personal după Bocaccio, Teatrul Anton Pann din Râmnicu Vâlcea, 1993 Phaedra, scenariu original după Seneca şi Euripide, la Teatrul Naţional din Craiova, iar premiera a avut loc la Viena (iunie) în colaborare cu Feestwochen din Viena (Austria), 1993 Danaidele după Eschil, Teatrul Naţional Marin Sorescu, Craiova, 1995 Orestia, Teatrul Naţional Marin Sorescu, Craiova, 1998 Cum doriţi sau Noaptea de la spartul târgului, după William Shakespeare, Teatrul National Marin Sorescu, Craiova, 2004 Măsură pentru măsură de William Shakespeare, Teatrul National Marin Sorescu, Craiova, 2008 O furtună după William Shakespeare, Teatrul Naţional Marin Sorescu, Craiova, 2012 Teatrul Național „Radu Stanca” din Sibiu Pilafuri și parfum de măgar, exercițiu după Cartea celor o mie și una de nopți, 2001 Cumnata lui Pantagruel după scrieri de François Rabelais, 2003 Așteptându-l pe Godot de Samuel Beckett, 2005 Faust după J. W. Goethe, 2007 Lulu de Frank Wedekind, 2008 Metamorfoze după Ovidiu, 2009 D’ale carnavalului de Ion Luca Caragiale, 2011 Călătoriile lui Guliver, exerciții scenice inspirate din opera lui Jonathan Swift, premiera în cadrul celei de-a XIX-a ediţii a Festivalului Internaţional de Teatru de la Sibiu, 2012 În străinătate pune în scenă și opere lirice printre care: La Bohème de Giacomo Puccini (Essen), Parsifal de Richard Wagner (Scottish Opera), Roberto Devereux de Gaetano Donizetti (Wiener Staatsoper), Castor et Polux de Jean-Philippe Rameau (Opera Bonn), Îngerul de foc de Serghei Prokofiev (Csokonai Theatre Debrecen). Colaborări internaţionale 1984 – montează Mizantropul de Moliere la Teatrul Dramatic din Beersheva (Israel) 1988 – pune în scenă Opera G de Fred Popovici la Festivalul Pro Musica de la Bremen (Germania) 1993 – regizează Phaedra, scenariu original după Seneca şi Euripide, la Teatrul Naţional din Craiova, iar premiera a avut loc la Viena (iunie) în colaborare cu Feestwochen din Viena (Austria); Decameronul, Phaedra și Danaidele (Glasgow), Orestia(Lyric Hammersmith), Ubu Rex (Edinburgh International Festival) și Furtuna (Nottingham Playhouse), iar in 2007 Macbett de Eugen Ionescu pentru Royal Shakespeare Company. Troilus și Cresida a fost prima sa colaborare cu Teatrul Katona József din Budapesta. Spectacolul a fost prezentat în 2006 la București în cadrul Festivalului Internațional Shakespeare. Călătoriile lui Gulliver (2012) este un proiect cultural demarat acum trei ani în parteneriat cu Festivalul de la Edinburgh și finanţat cu sprijin de la Administraţia Fondului Cultural Naţional. În 2002 înființează propria sa companie teatrală. Din 2003, Silviu Purcărete este membru cu titlu personal al Uniunii Teatrelor din Europa. Premii Premiul criticii și Premiul pentru excelență artistică al Fundației Hamada pentru „Ubu Rex cu scene din Macbeth”, Festivalul Internațional de la Edinburgh, 1991 Premiul pentru cel mai bun spectacol străin la Festivalul Americilor de la Montreal, 1993 Premiul pentru cel mai bun spectacol, cel mai bun regizor, cea mai bună scenografie şi pentru debut, pentru Titus Andronicus (Gala Premiilor UNITER 1992) precum şi: Marele Premiu şi Trofeul Oraşului Bucureşti, premiul pentru regie, pentru scenografie, pentru cea mai bună interpretare masculină, cea mai bună interpretare feminină şi Premiul special al juriului – FNT, 1992 Golden Globe Peter Brook Prize pentru cea mai bună regie teatrală, 1995 Premiul criticii la Festivalul de teatru de la Dublin, 1996 Premiul special al juriului la Festivalul Internațional Shakespeare, Gdansk, 2006 Premiul „Herald Angel” la Festivalul Internaţional de la Edinburg pentru „Călătoriile lui Gulliver”, 2012 Ordinul Steaua României în grad de Comandor, 2000 FOTO: Silviu Purcărete Redactare: Constantin Enache Silviu Purcărete (n. 5 aprilie 1950, București) este un regizor de operă și de teatru român. Silviu Purcărete a absolvit secția de regie a IATC-ului în 1974. După colaborările cu Teatrul din Piatra Neamț (Romeo și Julieta de Shakespeare) și Teatrul din Constanța (Ecuba de Euripide, Miles Gloriosus de Plaut), începând din 1978 lucrează la Teatrul Mic din București (Giraudoux, Sartre, Shakespeare) și devine professor la Institutului de Artă Teatrală și Cinematografică. În 1986 pune în scenă un spectacol cu piesa Campiello(Piațeta) de Goldoni cu care câștigă Premiul Național pentru Teatru. În anul 1992 e numit director artistic al Teatrului Bulandra din București. Numele său e legat în principal de colaborarea cu Teatrul Național din Craiova cu care prezintă Piticul din grădina de vară de D.R.Popescu (1989), Ubu rex cu scene din Macbeth, după Alfred Jarry și W.Shakespeare (1990), Titus Andronicus de W. Shakespeare (1992), Phaedra, după Seneca și Euripide (1993), Orestia (1998, după Eschil, A douăsprezecea noapte, după W. Shakespeare (2004), Măsură pentru măsură de W. Shakespeare (2008), Furtuna, după W. Shakespeare (2012). Multe dintre spectacolele sale montate la Craiova (Titus Andronicus, Ubu Rex, Phaedra, A douăsprezecea noapte] au fost invitate la numeroase festivaluri din intreaga lume (Avignon, Edinburgh, Tokio, Melbourne, Montreal, Glasgow, Bath, Varna, Gdansk, Sarajevo). În anul 1996 devine director al Centrului Dramatic din Limoges pentru care produce, printre altele Orestia, Trei surori și Don Juan și unde, doi ani după creează o școală pentru tineri actori. După evenimentele din 1989 a pus în scenă Decameronul, la Teatrul Anton Pann din Râmnicu Vâlcea, iar în 1995, montează (având și sprijinul unor producători britanici) unul dintre cele mai îndrăznețțe proiecte teatrale ale acelor ani Danaidele într-o coproducție cu același Teatru național din Craiova, premieră care a avut o distribuție record de peste 100 de interpreți, printre care Radu Beligan, Coca Bloos și mulți alții. Spectacolul a fost apoi invitat la cele mai importante festivaluri internaționale, bucurându-se de un succes deosebit. Din anul 2001 până în prezent a regizat nu mai puțin de șapte spectacole la Teatrul Național „Radu Stanca” din Sibiu și anume: Pilafuri și parfum de măgar, exercițiu după Cartea celor o mie și una de nopți, care a avut premiera în 2001, Cumnata lui Pantagruel, după scrieri de François Rabelais (2003), Așteptându-l pe Godot de Samuel Beckett (2005), deja legendarul Faust după J. W. Goethe (2007), Lulu de Frank Wedekind (2008) și Metamorfoze după Ovidiu (2009), D’ale carnavalului, de Ion Luca Caragiale (2011). În străinătate pune în scenă și opere lirice printre care: La Bohème de Giacomo Puccini (Essen), Parsifal de Richard Wagner (Scottish Opera), Roberto Devereux de Gaetano Donizetti (Wiener Staatsoper), Castor et Polux de Jean-Philippe Rameau (Opera Bonn), Îngerul de foc de Serghei Prokofiev (Csokonai Theatre Debrecen). Regizează în Regatul Unit piesele teatrale Decameronul, Phaedra și Danaidele (Glasgow), Orestia (Lyric Hammersmith), Ubu Rex (Edinburgh International Festival) și Furtuna (Nottingham Playhouse), iar in 2007 Macbett de Eugen Ionescu pentru Royal Shakespeare Company. În 2002 înființează propria sa companie teatrală. Troilus și Cresida a fost prima sa colaborare cu Teatrul Katona József din Budapesta. Spectacolul a fost prezentat în 2006 la București în cadrul Festivalului Internațional Shakespeare. Din 2003, Silviu Purcărete e membru cu titlu personal al Uniunii Teatrelor din Europa. Spectacole de referinţă Romeo şi Julieta de William Shakespeare, Teatrul Tineretului din Piatra Neamţ, 1974 Miles Gloriosus de Plaut, Teatrul Dramatic din Constanţa, 1976 Legendele Atrizilor, adaptare după Eschil, Sofocle, Euripide, montare în spaţiul natural al ruinelor cetăţii Histria, 1978 Hecuba de Euripide, Teatrul Dramatic din Constanţa, Premiul ATM pentru regie, 1982 Diavolul şi Bunul Dumnezeu de Jean Paul Sartre, Teatrul Mic, Premiul ATM, 1982 Il Campielo (Piaţeta) de Goldoni, Teatrul Tineretului din Piatra Neamţ, premiul ATM, 1986 O scrisoare pierdută de I.l.Caragiale, Teatrul Mic, Premiul special ATM, 1988 Piticul din grădina de vară de D.R.Popescu, Teatrul Naţional din Craiova, Marele Premiu al UNITER, 1989 Ubu Rex cu scene din Macbeth după Alfred Jarry şi William Shakespeare, Teatrul Naţional din Craiova; Marele Premiu al Criticii şi Premiul Hamada al Festivalului Internaţional de la Edinburgh; Premiul UNITER, Marele Premiu la Festivalul Naţional de Teatru „I.L.Caragiale” (ediţia a II-a), 1990 Titus Andronicus de William Shakespeare – prima reprezentare a piesei în România, la Teatrul Naţional din Craiova; Marele Premiu la Festivalul Naţional de Teatru, ed.a III-a şi Trofeul Oraşului Bucureşti; Premiul UNITER, 1992 Teatrul Comic de Goldoni, Teatrul Bulandra, 1992 Decameronul 645 – scenariu personal după Bocaccio, Teatrul Anton Pann din Râmnicu Vâlcea, 1993 Phaedra, scenariu original după Seneca şi Euripide, la Teatrul Naţional din Craiova, iar premiera a avut loc la Viena (iunie) în colaborare cu Feestwochen din Viena (Austria), 1993 Danaidele după Eschil, Teatrul Naţional Marin Sorescu, Craiova, 1995 Orestia, Teatrul Naţional Marin Sorescu, Craiova, 1998 Cum doriţi sau Noaptea de la spartul târgului, după William Shakespeare, Teatrul National Marin Sorescu, Craiova, 2004 Măsură pentru măsură de William Shakespeare, Teatrul National Marin Sorescu, Craiova, 2008 O furtună după William Shakespeare, Teatrul Naţional Marin Sorescu, Craiova, 2012 Teatrul Național „Radu Stanca” din Sibiu Pilafuri și parfum de măgar, exercițiu după Cartea celor o mie și una de nopți, 2001 Cumnata lui Pantagruel după scrieri de François Rabelais, 2003 Așteptându-l pe Godot de Samuel Beckett, 2005 Faust după J. W. Goethe, 2007 Lulu de Frank Wedekind, 2008 Metamorfoze după Ovidiu, 2009 D’ale carnavalului de Ion Luca Caragiale, 2011 Călătoriile lui Guliver, exerciții scenice inspirate din opera lui Jonathan Swift, premiera în cadrul celei de-a XIX-a ediţii a Festivalului Internaţional de Teatru de la Sibiu, 2012 În străinătate pune în scenă și opere lirice printre care: La Bohème de Giacomo Puccini (Essen), Parsifal de Richard Wagner (Scottish Opera), Roberto Devereux de Gaetano Donizetti (Wiener Staatsoper), Castor et Polux de Jean-Philippe Rameau (Opera Bonn), Îngerul de foc de Serghei Prokofiev (Csokonai Theatre Debrecen). Colaborări internaţionale 1984 – montează Mizantropul de Moliere la Teatrul Dramatic din Beersheva (Israel) 1988 – pune în scenă Opera G de Fred Popovici la Festivalul Pro Musica de la Bremen (Germania) 1993 – regizează Phaedra, scenariu original după Seneca şi Euripide, la Teatrul Naţional din Craiova, iar premiera a avut loc la Viena (iunie) în colaborare cu Feestwochen din Viena (Austria); Decameronul, Phaedra și Danaidele (Glasgow), Orestia(Lyric Hammersmith), Ubu Rex (Edinburgh International Festival) și Furtuna (Nottingham Playhouse), iar in 2007 Macbett de Eugen Ionescu pentru Royal Shakespeare Company. Troilus și Cresida a fost prima sa colaborare cu Teatrul Katona József din Budapesta. Spectacolul a fost prezentat în 2006 la București în cadrul Festivalului Internațional Shakespeare. Călătoriile lui Gulliver (2012) este un proiect cultural demarat acum trei ani în parteneriat cu Festivalul de la Edinburgh și finanţat cu sprijin de la Administraţia Fondului Cultural Naţional. În 2002 înființează propria sa companie teatrală. Din 2003, Silviu Purcărete este membru cu titlu personal al Uniunii Teatrelor din Europa. Premiul criticii și Premiul pentru excelență artistică al Fundației Hamada pentru „Ubu Rex cu scene din Macbeth”, Festivalul Internațional de la Edinburgh, 1991 Premiul pentru cel mai bun spectacol străin la Festivalul Americilor de la Montreal, 1993 Premiul pentru cel mai bun spectacol, cel mai bun regizor, cea mai bună scenografie şi pentru debut, pentru Titus Andronicus (Gala Premiilor UNITER 1992) precum şi: Marele Premiu şi Trofeul Oraşului Bucureşti, premiul pentru regie, pentru scenografie, pentru cea mai bună interpretare masculină, cea mai bună interpretare feminină şi Premiul special al juriului – FNT, 1992 Golden Globe Peter Brook Prize pentru cea mai bună regie teatrală, 1995 Premiul criticii la Festivalul de teatru de la Dublin, 1996 Premiul special al juriului la Festivalul Internațional Shakespeare, Gdansk, 2006 Premiul „Herald Angel” la Festivalul Internaţional de la Edinburg pentru „Călătoriile lui Gulliver”, 2012 Ordinul Steaua României în grad de Comandor, 2000 FOTO: Silviu Purcărete Redactare: Constantin Enache Biography Rudolf Khametovich Nureyev (17 March 1938 – 6 January 1993) was a Soviet ballet dancer and choreographer. He was director of the Paris Opera Ballet from 1983 to 1989 and its chief choreographer until October 1992. Named Lord of the Dance, Rudolf Nureyev is regarded as one of ballet’s most gifted male dancers. In addition to his technical prowess, Rudolf Nureyev was an accomplished choreographer. He produced his own interpretations of numerous classical works, including Swan Lake, Giselle, and La Bayadère. Rudolf Nureyev had his early career with the Mariinsky Ballet in St. Petersburg. He defected from the Soviet Union to the West in 1961, despite KGB efforts to stop him. This was the first defection of a Soviet artist during the Cold War and it created an international sensation. He went on to dance with The Royal Ballet in London and from 1983 to 1989 served as director of the Paris Opera Ballet. Early life Rudolf Nureyev was born on a Trans-Siberian train near Irkutsk, Siberia, Soviet Union, while his mother, Feride, was travelling to Vladivostok, where his father Hamit, a Red Army political commissar, was stationed. He was raised as the only son with three older sisters in a Tatar family in a village near Ufa in Bashkir ASSR, Soviet Union. When his mother took Rudolf Nureyev and his sisters into a performance of the ballet „Song of the Cranes”, he fell in love with dance. As a child he was encouraged to dance in Bashkir folk performances and his precocity was soon noticed by teachers who encouraged him to train in Saint Petersburg. On a tour stop in Moscow with a local ballet company, Nureyev auditioned for the Bolshoi ballet company and was accepted. Education at Vaganova Academy However, he felt that the Mariinsky Ballet school was the best, so he left the local touring company and bought a ticket to St. Petersburg. Owing to the disruption of Soviet cultural life caused by World War II, Nureyev was unable to enroll in a major ballet school until 1955, aged 17, when he was accepted by the Vaganova Academy of Russian Ballet of Saint Petersburg, the associate school of the Mariinsky Ballet. The ballet master Alexander Ivanovich Pushkin took an interest in him professionally and allowed Nureyev to live with him and his wife. Principal with Kirov ballet Upon his graduation in 1958, Nureyev joined the Kirov Ballet (now Marinsky). He moved immediately beyond the corps level, and was given solo roles as a principal dancer from the outset.[4] Rudolf Nureyev regularly partnered Natalya Dudinskaya, the company’s senior ballerina and the wife of its director, Konstantin Sergeyev. Natalia Dudinskaya, 26 years his senior, chose him as her partner in the ballet Laurencia. Before long Rudolf Nureyev became one of the Soviet Union’s best-known dancers. From 1958 to 1961, in his three years with the Mariinsky, he danced 15 rôles, usually opposite his partner, Ninel Kurgapkina, with whom he was very well paired, although she was almost a decade older than he was. Nureyev and Kurgapkina were invited to dance at a gathering at Khrushchev’s dacha, and in 1959 they were allowed to travel outside the Soviet Union, dancing in Vienna at the International Youth Festival. Not long after, he was told by the Ministry of Culture that he would not be allowed to go abroad again. In one memorable incident, Nureyev interrupted a performance of Don Quixote for 40 minutes, insisting on dancing in tights and not in the customary trousers. He relented in the end, but his preferred dress code was adopted in later performances. Defection to Paris Rudolf Nureyev after his defection from the Soviet Union in 1961. By the late 1950s, Rudolf Nureyev had become a sensation in the Soviet Union. Yet, as the Mariinsky Ballet was preparing to go on a tour to Paris and London, Nureyev’s rebellious character and a non-conformist attitude made him an unlikely candidate for a trip to the West, which was to be of crucial importance to the Soviet government’s ambitions to portray their cultural supremacy. Furthermore, tensions between Rudolf Nureyev and the Mariinsky’s artistic director Konstantin Sergeyev, husband and former dance partner of Natalia Dudinskaya, were growing. After a representative of the French tour organizers saw Nureyev dance in Leningrad in 1960, the French organizers urged Soviet authorities to let him dance in Paris, and he was allowed to go. In Paris, his performances electrified audiences and critics. Oliver Merlin in Le Monde wrote, I will never forget his arrival running across the back of the stage, and his catlike way of holding himself opposite the ramp. He wore a white sash over an ultramarine costume, had large wild eyes and hollow cheeks under a turban topped with a spray of feathers, bulging thighs, immaculate tights. This was already Nijinsky in Firebird. Nureyev was seen to have broken the rules about mingling with foreigners, which alarmed the Mariinsky’s management and the KGB agents observing him. The KGB wanted to send him back to the Soviet Union. On 16 June 1961 the Mariinsky group had gathered at Le Bourget Airport in Paris to fly to London. Sergeyev then took Nureyev aside and told him that he would have to return to Moscow, for a special performance in the Kremlin. Nureyev became suspicious and refused. Next he was told that his mother had fallen severely ill and he needed to come home immediately to see her. Nureyev refused again, believing that on return to the USSR he was likely to be imprisoned. With the help of French police and a Parisian socialite friend – Clara Saint, who was engaged to the son of the French Minister of Culture Andre Malraux– Nureyev got away from his KGB minders and asked for asylum. Sergeyev and the KGB tried to discuss it with him but he chose to stay in Paris. Within a week, he was signed up by the Grand Ballet du Marquis de Cuevas and was performing The Sleeping Beauty with Nina Vyroubova. On a tour of Denmark he met Erik Bruhn, soloist at the Royal Danish Ballet who became his lover, his closest friend and his protector until Bruhn’s death in 1986. Soviet authorities made Nureyev’s father, mother and dance teacher Pushkin write letters to him, urging him to return, without effect. Although he petitioned the Soviet government for many years to be allowed to visit his mother, he was not allowed to do so until 1987, when his mother was dying and Mikhail Gorbachev consented to the visit. In 1989, he was invited to dance the role of James in La Sylphide with the Mariinsky Ballet at the Mariinsky Theatre in St. Petersburg. The visit gave him the opportunity to see many of the teachers and colleagues he had not seen since his defection. Royal Ballet Nureyev’s first appearance in the United Kingdom was at a ballet matinée organised by The Royal Ballet’s Prima Ballerina Dame Margot Fonteyn in 1961. The event was held in aid of the Royal Academy of Dance, a classical ballet teaching organisation of which she was President. He danced Poème Tragique, a solo choreographed by Frederick Ashton, and the Black Swan pas de deux from Swan Lake. Dame Ninette de Valois offered him a contract to join The Royal Ballet as Principal Dancer. His first appearance with the company was partnering Margot Fonteyn in Giselle on 21 February 1962. Fonteyn and Nureyev would go on to form a partnership. Nureyev stayed with the Royal Ballet until 1970, when he was promoted to Principal Guest Artist, enabling him to concentrate on his increasing schedule of international guest appearances and tours. He continued to perform regularly with The Royal Ballet until committing his future to the Paris Opera Ballet in the 1980s. Nureyev and his dance partnerships Rudolf Nureyev and Margot Fonteyn in the Grand adage from Nureyev’s staging of the Petipa/Minkus The Kingdom of the Shades for the Royal Ballet, London, 1963. Yvette Chauviré of the Paris Opera Ballet often danced with Nureyev; he described her as a „legend”. Chauviré attended his funeral with French dancer and actress Leslie Caron. Rudolf Nureyev and Margot Fonteyn at the Royal Ballet became long-standing dance partners. Nureyev once said of Fonteyn, who was 19 years older than him, that they danced with „one body, one soul”. Together Nureyev and Fonteyn premiered Sir Frederick Ashton’s ballet Marguerite and Armand, a ballet danced to Liszt’s Piano Sonata in B minor, which became their signature piece. Kenneth MacMillan was forced to allow them to premiere his Romeo and Juliet, which was intended for two other dancers, Lynn Seymour and Christopher Gable. Films exist of their partnership in Les Sylphides, Swan Lake, Romeo and Juliet, and other roles. They continued to dance together for many years after Nureyev’s departure from the Royal Ballet. Their last performance together was in Baroque Pas de Trois on 16 September 1988 when Fonteyn was 69, Nureyev was aged 50, with Carla Fracci also starring, aged 52. He celebrated another long-time partnership with Eva Evdokimova. They first appeared together in La Sylphide (1971) and in 1975 he selected her as his Sleeping Beauty in his staging for London Festival Ballet. Evdokimova remained his partner of choice for many guest appearances and tours across the globe with „Nureyev and Friends” for more than fifteen years. The Nureyev phenomenon Advocates to describe the Nureyev phenomenon precisely are John Tooley, former general director of the Royal Opera House, London, Pierre Bergé, former president of Opéra Bastille, venue of the Paris Opera Ballet (in addition to the Palais Garnier) and Manuel Legris, principal dancer with the Paris Opera Ballet nominated by Rudolf Nureyev in New York. Tooley wrote that Nureyev grew up very poor and had to make up for three to five years in ballet edudation at a high-level ballet school, giving him a decisive impetus to aquire the maximum of technical skills and to become the best dancer working on perfection during his whole career. The challenge for all dancers whom Nureyev worked with was to follow suit and to share his total commitment for dance. Nureyev entered the Vaganova Ballet Academy at the age of just 17 staying there for only 3 years whereas dancers who will become principal dancers later on often enter the Vaganova school at 9 and go through the full 9 years of dance education. Vladimir Vasiliev, peer of Nureyev at the Bolshoi and regarded with Rudolf Nureyev and Mikhail Baryshnikov as one of the top three ballet dancers, became a pupil of the Vaganova Ballet Academy in 1949, graduating in 1958 together with Nureyev. Baryshnikov passed only three years[35] at the Vaganova school of St. Peterburg like Nureyev. Now, paradoxically, both Rudolf Nureyev and Mikhail Baryshnikov became master of perfection in dance. Dance and life was one and the same. Nureyev put it like this: „I approach dancing from a different angle than those who begin dancing at 8 or 9. Those who have studied from the beginning never question anything.” Pierre Bergé said about Rudolf Nureyev: „He was a dancer like any other dancer. It is extraordinary to have 19 points out of 20. It is extremely rare to have 20 out of 20. However, to have 21 out of 20 is even much rarer. And this was the situation with Nureyev.” Legris said: „Rudolf Nureyev was a high-speed train (he was a TGV).” Working with Rudolf Nureyev involved having to surpass oneself and stepping on it. Style Mikhail Baryshnikov, the other great dancer who like Nureyev defected to the West, holds Nureyev in high regard. Baryshnikov told in an interview that Rudolf Nureyev was an unusual man in all respects, instinctive, intelligence, constant curiosity, and extraordinary discipline, that was his goal of life and of course love in performing. Director of the Paris Opera Ballet In 1982, Nureyev became a naturalized citizen of Austria. In 1983, he was appointed director of the Paris Opera Ballet, where, as well as directing, he continued to dance and to promote younger dancers. He remained there as a dancer and chief of choreography until 1989. Among the dancers he groomed were Sylvie Guillem, Isabelle Guérin, Manuel Legris, Elisabeth Maurin, Élisabeth Platel, Charles Jude, and Monique Loudières. His artistic directorship of the Paris Opera Ballet was a great success, lifting the company out of a dark period. His Sleeping Beauty remains in the repertoire and was revived and filmed with his protégé Manuel Legris in the lead. Despite advancing illness towards the end of his tenure, he worked tirelessly, staging new versions of old standbys and commissioning some of the most ground-breaking choreographic works of his time. His own Romeo and Juliet was a popular success. When he was sick towards the end of his life, he worked on a final production of La Bayadère which closely follows the Mariinsky Ballet version he danced as a young man. Influence Mr. Nureyev, as he was called by the columnists in their newspaper articles, was above all a stickler for classical technique, and his mastery of it made him a model for an entire generation of dancers. If the standard of male dancing rose so visibly in the West after the 1960’s, it was largely because of Mr. Nureyev’s inspiration. Nureyev’s influence on the world of ballet changed the perception of male dancers; in his own productions of the classics the male roles received much more choreography. Another important influence was his crossing the borders between classical ballet and modern dance by performing both. Today it is normal for dancers to receive training in both styles, but Nureyev was the originator and excelled in modern and classical dance. He went out of his way to work with modern dance great, Martha Graham, and she created a work specially for him. While Gene Kelly had done much to combine modern and classical styles in film, he came from a more Modern Dance influenced „popular dance” environment, while Nureyev made great strides in gaining acceptance of Modern Dance in the „Classical Ballet” sphere. Rudolf Nureyev’s charisma, commitment and generosity were such that he did not just pass on his knowledge. He personified the school of life for a dancer. Several dancers, who were principals with the Paris Opera Ballet under his direction, went on to become ballet directors themselves inspired to continue Nureyev’s work and ideas. Manuel Legris is director of the Vienna State Ballet, Laurent Hilaire is ballet director of the Stanislavski Theatre of Moscow and Charles Jude ballet director of the Grand Théâtre de Bordeaux. Personality and personal life Rudolf Nureyev did not have much patience with rules, limitations and hierarchical order and had at times a volatile temper. He was apt to throw tantrums in public when frustrated. His impatience mainly showed itself when the failings of others interfered with his work. He socialized with Gore Vidal, Freddie Mercury, Jackie Kennedy Onassis, Mick Jagger, Liza Minnelli, Andy Warhol, Lee Radziwill and Talitha Pol, but developed an intolerance for celebrities. He kept up old friendships in and out of the ballet world for decades, and was considered to be a loyal and generous friend. Most ballerinas with whom Rudolf Nureyev danced, including Antoinette Sibley, Gelsey Kirkland and Annette Page paid tribute to him as a considerate partner. He was known as extremely generous to many ballerinas, who credit him with helping them during difficult times. In particular, the Canadian ballerina Lynn Seymour – distressed when she was denied the opportunity to premiere MacMillan’s Romeo and Juliet – says that Nureyev often found projects for her even when she was suffering from weight issues and depression and thus had trouble finding roles. Depending on the source, Nureyev is described as either bisexual, as he did have heterosexual relationships as a younger man, or gay. He had a turbulent sex life, with numerous bathhouse visits and anonymous pickups. Nureyev met Erik Bruhn, the celebrated Danish dancer, after Nureyev defected to the West in 1961. Nureyev was a great admirer of Bruhn, having seen filmed performances of the Dane on tour in the Soviet Union with the American Ballet Theatre, although stylistically the two dancers were very different. Bruhn and Nureyev became a couple and the two remained together off and on, with a very volatile relationship for 25 years, until Bruhn’s death in 1986. In 1973 Nureyev met the 23-year-old American dancer Robert Tracy and a two-and-a-half-year love affair began. Tracy later became Nureyev’s secretary and live-in companion. According to Tracy, Nureyev said that he had had sex with three women in his life, he had always wanted a son, and once had plans to father one with Nastassja Kinski. Final years When AIDS appeared in France’s news around 1982, Nureyev took little notice. The dancer tested positive for HIV in 1984, but for several years he simply denied that anything was wrong with his health. However, by the late 1980s his diminished capabilities disappointed his admirers who had fond memories of his outstanding prowess and skill. Nureyev began a marked decline only in the summer of 1991 and entered the final phase of the disease in the spring of 1992. In March 1992, living with advanced AIDS, he visited Kazan and appeared as a conductor in front of the audience at Musa Cälil Tatar Academic Opera and Ballet Theater, which now presents the Rudolf Nureyev Festival in Tatarstan. Returning to Paris, with a high fever, he was admitted to the hospital Notre Dame du Perpétuel Secours in Levallois-Perret, a suburb northwest of Paris, and was operated on for pericarditis, an inflammation of the membranous sac around the heart. At that time, what inspired him to fight his illness was the hope that he could fulfill an invitation to conduct Prokofiev’s Romeo and Juliet at an American Ballet Theatre benefit on 6 May 1992 at the Metropolitan Opera House in New York. He did so and was elated at the reception. In July 1992, Nureyev showed renewed signs of pericarditis but determined to forswear further treatment. His last public appearance was on 8 October 1992, at the premiere at Palais Garnier of a new production of La Bayadère that he choreographed after Marius Petipa for the Paris Opera Ballet. Nureyev had managed to obtain a photocopy of the original score by Minkus when in Russia in 1989. The ballet was a personal triumph although the gravity of his condition was evident. The French Culture Minister, Jack Lang, presented him that evening on stage with France’s highest cultural award, the Commandeur de l’Ordre des Arts et des Lettres. Death, funeral and tributes Nureyev’s tomb in Sainte-Geneviève-des-Bois. Nureyev re-entered the hospital Notre Dame du Perpétuel Secours in Levallois-Perret on 20 November 1992 and remained there until his death from cardiac complications at age 54 on 6 January 1993. His funeral was held in the marble foyer of the Paris Garnier Opera House. Many paid tributes to his brilliance as a dancer. One such tribute came from Oleg Vinogradov of the Mariinsky Ballet in Saint Petersburg, Russia, stating: „What Nureyev did in the west, he could never have done here.” Nureyev’s grave, at a Russian cemetery in Sainte-Geneviève-des-Bois near Paris, features a tomb draped in a mosaic of an oriental carpet. Nureyev was an avid collector of beautiful carpets and antique textiles. As his coffin was lowered into the ground, music from the last act of Giselle was played and his ballet shoes were cast into the grave along with white lilies. After so many years of having been denied a place in the Mariinsky Ballet history, Nureyev’s reputation was restored. His name was reentered in the history of the Mariinsky and some of his personal effects were placed on display at the theatre museum in St. Petersburg. At the famed Vaganova Academy a rehearsal room was named in his honour. As of October 2013, the Centre National du Costume de Scene has a permanent collection of Nureyev’s costumes „that offers visitors a sense of his exuberant, vagabond personality and passion for all that was rare and beautiful.” In 2015 he was inducted into the Legacy Walk. Homage to Rudolf Nureyev At the Paris Opera there is a tradition to organize a dance night as homage to Rudolf Nureyev every ten years after he died in 1993. The homage to Nureyev was scheduled on 20 March 2003 and on 6 March 2013 respectively because he was born in March. Peers of Rudolf Nureyev speaking about him and remembering him like Mikhail Baryshnikov are often deeply touched. Literature The novelist Colum McCann wrote a novel about Nureyev’s life entitled Dancer published in 2003. Film, television and musical In 1962, Nureyev made his screen debut in a film version of Les Sylphides. He decided against an acting career in order to branch into modern dance with the Dutch National Ballet in 1968. In 1972, Sir Robert Helpmann invited him to tour Australia with Nureyev’s production of Don Quixote. The film version (1973) was directed by Nureyev and Helpman and features Nureyev as Basilio, Lucette Aldous as Kitri, Helpmann as Don Quixote and artists of the Australian Ballet. In 1977 he played Rudolph Valentino in Ken Russell’s film Valentino. In 1978 he appeared as a guest star on the television series The Muppet Show where he danced in a parody called „Swine Lake”, sang „Baby, It’s Cold Outside” in a sauna duet with Miss Piggy, and sang and tap-danced in the show’s finale, „Top Hat, White Tie and Tails”. His appearance is credited with making Jim Henson’s series become one of the sought after programs to appear in. In 1983 he had a non-dancing role in the movie Exposed with Nastassja Kinski. In 1989, he toured the United States and Canada for 24 weeks with a revival of the Broadway musical The King and I. Documentary films Rudolf Noureev exercising at the barre, 21 December 1970, ORTF, site INA (4 min 13), extract: „I’m the world’s greatest dancer, so they say.”; very impressive scenes. Nureyev, documentary with Nureyev by Thames Television, 1981; it includes a candid interview, as well as access to him in the studio. Nureyev: From Russia With Love, documentary by John Bridcut, 2007 Rudolf Nureyev – Dance To Freedom, documentary by Richard Curson Smith, 2015 Rudolf Nureev. The Island of his Dream (Russian: Рудольф Нуреев. Остров его мечты, Rudolf Nureyev. Ostrov ego mechty), documentary by Evgeniya Tirdatova, 2016 FOTO: Rudolf Nureyev Written by: Constantin Enache Rudolf Khametovich Nureyev (17 March 1938 – 6 January 1993) was a Soviet ballet dancer and choreographer. He was director of the Paris Opera Ballet from 1983 to 1989 and its chief choreographer until October 1992. Named Lord of the Dance, Rudolf Nureyev is regarded as one of ballet’s most gifted male dancers. In addition to his technical prowess, Rudolf Nureyev was an accomplished choreographer. He produced his own interpretations of numerous classical works, including Swan Lake, Giselle, and La Bayadère. Rudolf Nureyev had his early career with the Mariinsky Ballet in St. Petersburg. He defected from the Soviet Union to the West in 1961, despite KGB efforts to stop him. This was the first defection of a Soviet artist during the Cold War and it created an international sensation. He went on to dance with The Royal Ballet in London and from 1983 to 1989 served as director of the Paris Opera Ballet. Rudolf Nureyev was born on a Trans-Siberian train near Irkutsk, Siberia, Soviet Union, while his mother, Feride, was travelling to Vladivostok, where his father Hamit, a Red Army political commissar, was stationed. He was raised as the only son with three older sisters in a Tatar family in a village near Ufa in Bashkir ASSR, Soviet Union. When his mother took Rudolf Nureyev and his sisters into a performance of the ballet „Song of the Cranes”, he fell in love with dance. As a child he was encouraged to dance in Bashkir folk performances and his precocity was soon noticed by teachers who encouraged him to train in Saint Petersburg. On a tour stop in Moscow with a local ballet company, Nureyev auditioned for the Bolshoi ballet company and was accepted. Education at Vaganova Academy However, he felt that the Mariinsky Ballet school was the best, so he left the local touring company and bought a ticket to St. Petersburg. Owing to the disruption of Soviet cultural life caused by World War II, Nureyev was unable to enroll in a major ballet school until 1955, aged 17, when he was accepted by the Vaganova Academy of Russian Ballet of Saint Petersburg, the associate school of the Mariinsky Ballet. The ballet master Alexander Ivanovich Pushkin took an interest in him professionally and allowed Nureyev to live with him and his wife. Principal with Kirov ballet Upon his graduation in 1958, Nureyev joined the Kirov Ballet (now Marinsky). He moved immediately beyond the corps level, and was given solo roles as a principal dancer from the outset.[4] Rudolf Nureyev regularly partnered Natalya Dudinskaya, the company’s senior ballerina and the wife of its director, Konstantin Sergeyev. Natalia Dudinskaya, 26 years his senior, chose him as her partner in the ballet Laurencia. Before long Rudolf Nureyev became one of the Soviet Union’s best-known dancers. From 1958 to 1961, in his three years with the Mariinsky, he danced 15 rôles, usually opposite his partner, Ninel Kurgapkina, with whom he was very well paired, although she was almost a decade older than he was. Nureyev and Kurgapkina were invited to dance at a gathering at Khrushchev’s dacha, and in 1959 they were allowed to travel outside the Soviet Union, dancing in Vienna at the International Youth Festival. Not long after, he was told by the Ministry of Culture that he would not be allowed to go abroad again. In one memorable incident, Nureyev interrupted a performance of Don Quixote for 40 minutes, insisting on dancing in tights and not in the customary trousers. He relented in the end, but his preferred dress code was adopted in later performances. Defection to Paris Rudolf Nureyev after his defection from the Soviet Union in 1961. By the late 1950s, Rudolf Nureyev had become a sensation in the Soviet Union. Yet, as the Mariinsky Ballet was preparing to go on a tour to Paris and London, Nureyev’s rebellious character and a non-conformist attitude made him an unlikely candidate for a trip to the West, which was to be of crucial importance to the Soviet government’s ambitions to portray their cultural supremacy. Furthermore, tensions between Rudolf Nureyev and the Mariinsky’s artistic director Konstantin Sergeyev, husband and former dance partner of Natalia Dudinskaya, were growing. After a representative of the French tour organizers saw Nureyev dance in Leningrad in 1960, the French organizers urged Soviet authorities to let him dance in Paris, and he was allowed to go. In Paris, his performances electrified audiences and critics. Oliver Merlin in Le Monde wrote, I will never forget his arrival running across the back of the stage, and his catlike way of holding himself opposite the ramp. He wore a white sash over an ultramarine costume, had large wild eyes and hollow cheeks under a turban topped with a spray of feathers, bulging thighs, immaculate tights. This was already Nijinsky in Firebird. Nureyev was seen to have broken the rules about mingling with foreigners, which alarmed the Mariinsky’s management and the KGB agents observing him. The KGB wanted to send him back to the Soviet Union. On 16 June 1961 the Mariinsky group had gathered at Le Bourget Airport in Paris to fly to London. Sergeyev then took Nureyev aside and told him that he would have to return to Moscow, for a special performance in the Kremlin. Nureyev became suspicious and refused. Next he was told that his mother had fallen severely ill and he needed to come home immediately to see her. Nureyev refused again, believing that on return to the USSR he was likely to be imprisoned. With the help of French police and a Parisian socialite friend – Clara Saint, who was engaged to the son of the French Minister of Culture Andre Malraux– Nureyev got away from his KGB minders and asked for asylum. Sergeyev and the KGB tried to discuss it with him but he chose to stay in Paris. Within a week, he was signed up by the Grand Ballet du Marquis de Cuevas and was performing The Sleeping Beauty with Nina Vyroubova. On a tour of Denmark he met Erik Bruhn, soloist at the Royal Danish Ballet who became his lover, his closest friend and his protector until Bruhn’s death in 1986. Soviet authorities made Nureyev’s father, mother and dance teacher Pushkin write letters to him, urging him to return, without effect. Although he petitioned the Soviet government for many years to be allowed to visit his mother, he was not allowed to do so until 1987, when his mother was dying and Mikhail Gorbachev consented to the visit. In 1989, he was invited to dance the role of James in La Sylphide with the Mariinsky Ballet at the Mariinsky Theatre in St. Petersburg. The visit gave him the opportunity to see many of the teachers and colleagues he had not seen since his defection. Royal Ballet Nureyev’s first appearance in the United Kingdom was at a ballet matinée organised by The Royal Ballet’s Prima Ballerina Dame Margot Fonteyn in 1961. The event was held in aid of the Royal Academy of Dance, a classical ballet teaching organisation of which she was President. He danced Poème Tragique, a solo choreographed by Frederick Ashton, and the Black Swan pas de deux from Swan Lake. Dame Ninette de Valois offered him a contract to join The Royal Ballet as Principal Dancer. His first appearance with the company was partnering Margot Fonteyn in Giselle on 21 February 1962. Fonteyn and Nureyev would go on to form a partnership. Nureyev stayed with the Royal Ballet until 1970, when he was promoted to Principal Guest Artist, enabling him to concentrate on his increasing schedule of international guest appearances and tours. He continued to perform regularly with The Royal Ballet until committing his future to the Paris Opera Ballet in the 1980s. Nureyev and his dance partnerships Rudolf Nureyev and Margot Fonteyn in the Grand adage from Nureyev’s staging of the Petipa/Minkus The Kingdom of the Shades for the Royal Ballet, London, 1963. Yvette Chauviré of the Paris Opera Ballet often danced with Nureyev; he described her as a „legend”. Chauviré attended his funeral with French dancer and actress Leslie Caron. Rudolf Nureyev and Margot Fonteyn at the Royal Ballet became long-standing dance partners. Nureyev once said of Fonteyn, who was 19 years older than him, that they danced with „one body, one soul”. Together Nureyev and Fonteyn premiered Sir Frederick Ashton’s ballet Marguerite and Armand, a ballet danced to Liszt’s Piano Sonata in B minor, which became their signature piece. Kenneth MacMillan was forced to allow them to premiere his Romeo and Juliet, which was intended for two other dancers, Lynn Seymour and Christopher Gable. Films exist of their partnership in Les Sylphides, Swan Lake, Romeo and Juliet, and other roles. They continued to dance together for many years after Nureyev’s departure from the Royal Ballet. Their last performance together was in Baroque Pas de Trois on 16 September 1988 when Fonteyn was 69, Nureyev was aged 50, with Carla Fracci also starring, aged 52. He celebrated another long-time partnership with Eva Evdokimova. They first appeared together in La Sylphide (1971) and in 1975 he selected her as his Sleeping Beauty in his staging for London Festival Ballet. Evdokimova remained his partner of choice for many guest appearances and tours across the globe with „Nureyev and Friends” for more than fifteen years. The Nureyev phenomenon Advocates to describe the Nureyev phenomenon precisely are John Tooley, former general director of the Royal Opera House, London, Pierre Bergé, former president of Opéra Bastille, venue of the Paris Opera Ballet (in addition to the Palais Garnier) and Manuel Legris, principal dancer with the Paris Opera Ballet nominated by Rudolf Nureyev in New York. Tooley wrote that Nureyev grew up very poor and had to make up for three to five years in ballet edudation at a high-level ballet school, giving him a decisive impetus to aquire the maximum of technical skills and to become the best dancer working on perfection during his whole career. The challenge for all dancers whom Nureyev worked with was to follow suit and to share his total commitment for dance. Nureyev entered the Vaganova Ballet Academy at the age of just 17 staying there for only 3 years whereas dancers who will become principal dancers later on often enter the Vaganova school at 9 and go through the full 9 years of dance education. Vladimir Vasiliev, peer of Nureyev at the Bolshoi and regarded with Rudolf Nureyev and Mikhail Baryshnikov as one of the top three ballet dancers, became a pupil of the Vaganova Ballet Academy in 1949, graduating in 1958 together with Nureyev. Baryshnikov passed only three years[35] at the Vaganova school of St. Peterburg like Nureyev. Now, paradoxically, both Rudolf Nureyev and Mikhail Baryshnikov became master of perfection in dance. Dance and life was one and the same. Nureyev put it like this: „I approach dancing from a different angle than those who begin dancing at 8 or 9. Those who have studied from the beginning never question anything.” Pierre Bergé said about Rudolf Nureyev: „He was a dancer like any other dancer. It is extraordinary to have 19 points out of 20. It is extremely rare to have 20 out of 20. However, to have 21 out of 20 is even much rarer. And this was the situation with Nureyev.” Legris said: „Rudolf Nureyev was a high-speed train (he was a TGV).” Working with Rudolf Nureyev involved having to surpass oneself and stepping on it. Mikhail Baryshnikov, the other great dancer who like Nureyev defected to the West, holds Nureyev in high regard. Baryshnikov told in an interview that Rudolf Nureyev was an unusual man in all respects, instinctive, intelligence, constant curiosity, and extraordinary discipline, that was his goal of life and of course love in performing. Director of the Paris Opera Ballet In 1982, Nureyev became a naturalized citizen of Austria. In 1983, he was appointed director of the Paris Opera Ballet, where, as well as directing, he continued to dance and to promote younger dancers. He remained there as a dancer and chief of choreography until 1989. Among the dancers he groomed were Sylvie Guillem, Isabelle Guérin, Manuel Legris, Elisabeth Maurin, Élisabeth Platel, Charles Jude, and Monique Loudières. His artistic directorship of the Paris Opera Ballet was a great success, lifting the company out of a dark period. His Sleeping Beauty remains in the repertoire and was revived and filmed with his protégé Manuel Legris in the lead. Despite advancing illness towards the end of his tenure, he worked tirelessly, staging new versions of old standbys and commissioning some of the most ground-breaking choreographic works of his time. His own Romeo and Juliet was a popular success. When he was sick towards the end of his life, he worked on a final production of La Bayadère which closely follows the Mariinsky Ballet version he danced as a young man. Mr. Nureyev, as he was called by the columnists in their newspaper articles, was above all a stickler for classical technique, and his mastery of it made him a model for an entire generation of dancers. If the standard of male dancing rose so visibly in the West after the 1960’s, it was largely because of Mr. Nureyev’s inspiration. Nureyev’s influence on the world of ballet changed the perception of male dancers; in his own productions of the classics the male roles received much more choreography. Another important influence was his crossing the borders between classical ballet and modern dance by performing both. Today it is normal for dancers to receive training in both styles, but Nureyev was the originator and excelled in modern and classical dance. He went out of his way to work with modern dance great, Martha Graham, and she created a work specially for him. While Gene Kelly had done much to combine modern and classical styles in film, he came from a more Modern Dance influenced „popular dance” environment, while Nureyev made great strides in gaining acceptance of Modern Dance in the „Classical Ballet” sphere. Rudolf Nureyev’s charisma, commitment and generosity were such that he did not just pass on his knowledge. He personified the school of life for a dancer. Several dancers, who were principals with the Paris Opera Ballet under his direction, went on to become ballet directors themselves inspired to continue Nureyev’s work and ideas. Manuel Legris is director of the Vienna State Ballet, Laurent Hilaire is ballet director of the Stanislavski Theatre of Moscow and Charles Jude ballet director of the Grand Théâtre de Bordeaux. Personality and personal life Rudolf Nureyev did not have much patience with rules, limitations and hierarchical order and had at times a volatile temper. He was apt to throw tantrums in public when frustrated. His impatience mainly showed itself when the failings of others interfered with his work. He socialized with Gore Vidal, Freddie Mercury, Jackie Kennedy Onassis, Mick Jagger, Liza Minnelli, Andy Warhol, Lee Radziwill and Talitha Pol, but developed an intolerance for celebrities. He kept up old friendships in and out of the ballet world for decades, and was considered to be a loyal and generous friend. Most ballerinas with whom Rudolf Nureyev danced, including Antoinette Sibley, Gelsey Kirkland and Annette Page paid tribute to him as a considerate partner. He was known as extremely generous to many ballerinas, who credit him with helping them during difficult times. In particular, the Canadian ballerina Lynn Seymour – distressed when she was denied the opportunity to premiere MacMillan’s Romeo and Juliet – says that Nureyev often found projects for her even when she was suffering from weight issues and depression and thus had trouble finding roles. Depending on the source, Nureyev is described as either bisexual, as he did have heterosexual relationships as a younger man, or gay. He had a turbulent sex life, with numerous bathhouse visits and anonymous pickups. Nureyev met Erik Bruhn, the celebrated Danish dancer, after Nureyev defected to the West in 1961. Nureyev was a great admirer of Bruhn, having seen filmed performances of the Dane on tour in the Soviet Union with the American Ballet Theatre, although stylistically the two dancers were very different. Bruhn and Nureyev became a couple and the two remained together off and on, with a very volatile relationship for 25 years, until Bruhn’s death in 1986. In 1973 Nureyev met the 23-year-old American dancer Robert Tracy and a two-and-a-half-year love affair began. Tracy later became Nureyev’s secretary and live-in companion. According to Tracy, Nureyev said that he had had sex with three women in his life, he had always wanted a son, and once had plans to father one with Nastassja Kinski. Final years When AIDS appeared in France’s news around 1982, Nureyev took little notice. The dancer tested positive for HIV in 1984, but for several years he simply denied that anything was wrong with his health. However, by the late 1980s his diminished capabilities disappointed his admirers who had fond memories of his outstanding prowess and skill. Nureyev began a marked decline only in the summer of 1991 and entered the final phase of the disease in the spring of 1992. In March 1992, living with advanced AIDS, he visited Kazan and appeared as a conductor in front of the audience at Musa Cälil Tatar Academic Opera and Ballet Theater, which now presents the Rudolf Nureyev Festival in Tatarstan. Returning to Paris, with a high fever, he was admitted to the hospital Notre Dame du Perpétuel Secours in Levallois-Perret, a suburb northwest of Paris, and was operated on for pericarditis, an inflammation of the membranous sac around the heart. At that time, what inspired him to fight his illness was the hope that he could fulfill an invitation to conduct Prokofiev’s Romeo and Juliet at an American Ballet Theatre benefit on 6 May 1992 at the Metropolitan Opera House in New York. He did so and was elated at the reception. In July 1992, Nureyev showed renewed signs of pericarditis but determined to forswear further treatment. His last public appearance was on 8 October 1992, at the premiere at Palais Garnier of a new production of La Bayadère that he choreographed after Marius Petipa for the Paris Opera Ballet. Nureyev had managed to obtain a photocopy of the original score by Minkus when in Russia in 1989. The ballet was a personal triumph although the gravity of his condition was evident. The French Culture Minister, Jack Lang, presented him that evening on stage with France’s highest cultural award, the Commandeur de l’Ordre des Arts et des Lettres. Death, funeral and tributes Nureyev’s tomb in Sainte-Geneviève-des-Bois. Nureyev re-entered the hospital Notre Dame du Perpétuel Secours in Levallois-Perret on 20 November 1992 and remained there until his death from cardiac complications at age 54 on 6 January 1993. His funeral was held in the marble foyer of the Paris Garnier Opera House. Many paid tributes to his brilliance as a dancer. One such tribute came from Oleg Vinogradov of the Mariinsky Ballet in Saint Petersburg, Russia, stating: „What Nureyev did in the west, he could never have done here.” Nureyev’s grave, at a Russian cemetery in Sainte-Geneviève-des-Bois near Paris, features a tomb draped in a mosaic of an oriental carpet. Nureyev was an avid collector of beautiful carpets and antique textiles. As his coffin was lowered into the ground, music from the last act of Giselle was played and his ballet shoes were cast into the grave along with white lilies. After so many years of having been denied a place in the Mariinsky Ballet history, Nureyev’s reputation was restored. His name was reentered in the history of the Mariinsky and some of his personal effects were placed on display at the theatre museum in St. Petersburg. At the famed Vaganova Academy a rehearsal room was named in his honour. As of October 2013, the Centre National du Costume de Scene has a permanent collection of Nureyev’s costumes „that offers visitors a sense of his exuberant, vagabond personality and passion for all that was rare and beautiful.” In 2015 he was inducted into the Legacy Walk. Homage to Rudolf Nureyev At the Paris Opera there is a tradition to organize a dance night as homage to Rudolf Nureyev every ten years after he died in 1993. The homage to Nureyev was scheduled on 20 March 2003 and on 6 March 2013 respectively because he was born in March. Peers of Rudolf Nureyev speaking about him and remembering him like Mikhail Baryshnikov are often deeply touched. The novelist Colum McCann wrote a novel about Nureyev’s life entitled Dancer published in 2003. Film, television and musical In 1962, Nureyev made his screen debut in a film version of Les Sylphides. He decided against an acting career in order to branch into modern dance with the Dutch National Ballet in 1968. In 1972, Sir Robert Helpmann invited him to tour Australia with Nureyev’s production of Don Quixote. The film version (1973) was directed by Nureyev and Helpman and features Nureyev as Basilio, Lucette Aldous as Kitri, Helpmann as Don Quixote and artists of the Australian Ballet. In 1977 he played Rudolph Valentino in Ken Russell’s film Valentino. In 1978 he appeared as a guest star on the television series The Muppet Show where he danced in a parody called „Swine Lake”, sang „Baby, It’s Cold Outside” in a sauna duet with Miss Piggy, and sang and tap-danced in the show’s finale, „Top Hat, White Tie and Tails”. His appearance is credited with making Jim Henson’s series become one of the sought after programs to appear in. In 1983 he had a non-dancing role in the movie Exposed with Nastassja Kinski. In 1989, he toured the United States and Canada for 24 weeks with a revival of the Broadway musical The King and I. Documentary films Rudolf Noureev exercising at the barre, 21 December 1970, ORTF, site INA (4 min 13), extract: „I’m the world’s greatest dancer, so they say.”; very impressive scenes. Nureyev, documentary with Nureyev by Thames Television, 1981; it includes a candid interview, as well as access to him in the studio. Nureyev: From Russia With Love, documentary by John Bridcut, 2007 Rudolf Nureyev – Dance To Freedom, documentary by Richard Curson Smith, 2015 Rudolf Nureev. The Island of his Dream (Russian: Рудольф Нуреев. Остров его мечты, Rudolf Nureyev. Ostrov ego mechty), documentary by Evgeniya Tirdatova, 2016 FOTO: Rudolf Nureyev Written by: Constantin Enache Biography Salvador Domingo Felipe Jacinto Dalí i Domènech, Marqués de Dalí de Púbol (11 May 1904 – 23 January 1989), known professionally as Salvador Dalí, was a prominent Spanish surrealist painter born in Figueres, Catalonia, Spain. Dalí was a skilled draftsman, best known for the striking and bizarre images in his surrealist work. His painterly skills are often attributed to the influence of Renaissance masters. His best-known work, The Persistence of Memory, was completed in August 1931. Dalí’s expansive artistic repertoire included film, sculpture, and photography, in collaboration with a range of artists in a variety of media. Dalí attributed his „love of everything that is gilded and excessive, my passion for luxury and my love of oriental clothes” to an „Arab lineage”, claiming that his ancestors were descended from the Moors. Dalí was highly imaginative, and also enjoyed indulging in unusual and grandiose behavior. His eccentric manner and attention-grabbing public actions sometimes drew more attention than his artwork, to the dismay of those who held his work in high esteem, and to the irritation of his critics. Early life The Dalí family in 1910: from the upper left, aunt Maria Teresa, mother, father, Salvador Dalí, aunt Caterina (later became second wife of father), sister Anna Maria and grandmother Anna Salvador Domingo Felipe Jacinto Dalí i Domènech was born on 11 May 1904, at 8:45 am GMT, at the 1st floor of Carrer Monturiol, 20 (presently 6), in the town of Figueres, in the Empordà region, close to the French border in Catalonia, Spain. In the Summer of 1912, the family moved to the top floor of Carrer Monturiol 24 (presently 10). Dalí’s older brother, who had also been named Salvador (born 12 October 1901), had died of gastroenteritis nine months earlier, on 1 August 1903. His father, Salvador Dalí i Cusí, was a middle-class lawyer and notary whose strict disciplinary approach was tempered by his wife, Felipa Domenech Ferrés, who encouraged her son’s artistic endeavors. When he was five, Dalí was taken to his brother’s grave and told by his parents that he was his brother’s reincarnation, a concept which he came to believe. Of his brother, Dalí said, „[we] resembled each other like two drops of water, but we had different reflections.” He „was probably a first version of myself but conceived too much in the absolute.” Images of his long-dead brother would reappear embedded in his later works, including Portrait of My Dead Brother (1963). Dalí also had a sister, Anna Maria, who was three years younger. In 1949, she published a book about her brother, Dalí As Seen By His Sister. His childhood friends included future FC Barcelona footballers Sagibarba and Josep Samitier.[citation needed] During holidays at the Catalan resort of Cadaqués, the trio played football (soccer) together. Dalí attended drawing school. In 1916, he also discovered modern painting on a summer vacation trip to Cadaqués with the family of Ramon Pichot, a local artist who made regular trips to Paris. The next year, Dalí’s father organized an exhibition of his charcoal drawings in their family home. He had his first public exhibition at the Municipal Theatre in Figueres in 1919, a site he would return to decades later. In February 1921, Dalí’s mother died of breast cancer. Dalí was 16 years old; he later said his mother’s death „was the greatest blow I had experienced in my life. I worshipped her… I could not resign myself to the loss of a being on whom I counted to make invisible the unavoidable blemishes of my soul.” After her death, Dalí’s father married his deceased wife’s sister. Dalí did not resent this marriage, because he had a great love and respect for his aunt. Madrid and Paris In 1922, Dalí moved into the Residencia de Estudiantes (Students’ Residence) in Madrid and studied at the Real Academia de Bellas Artes de San Fernando. A lean 1.72 metres (5 ft 7 3⁄4 in) tall, Dalí already drew attention as an eccentric and dandy. He had long hair and sideburns, coat, stockings, and knee-breeches in the style of English aesthetes of the late 19th century. At the Residencia, he became close friends with (among others) Pepín Bello, Luis Buñuel, and Federico García Lorca. The friendship with Lorca had a strong element of mutual passion, but Dalí rejected the poet’s sexual advances. However it was his paintings, in which he experimented with Cubism, that earned him the most attention from his fellow students. His only information on Cubist art had come from magazine articles and a catalog given to him by Pichot, since there were no Cubist artists in Madrid at the time. In 1924, the still-unknown Salvador Dalí illustrated a book for the first time. It was a publication of the Catalan poem Les bruixes de Llers („The Witches of Llers”) by his friend and schoolmate, poet Carles Fages de Climent. Dalí also experimented with Dada, which influenced his work throughout his life. Dalí was expelled from the Academy in 1926, shortly before his final exams when he was accused of starting an unrest. His mastery of painting skills at that time was evidenced by his realistic The Basket of Bread, painted in 1926. That same year, he made his first visit to Paris, where he met Pablo Picasso, whom the young Dalí revered. Picasso had already heard favorable reports about Dalí from Joan Miró, a fellow Catalan who introduced him to many Surrealist friends. As he developed his own style over the next few years, Dalí made a number of works heavily influenced by Picasso and Miró. Some trends in Dalí’s work that would continue throughout his life were already evident in the 1920s. Dalí devoured influences from many styles of art, ranging from the most academically classic, to the most cutting-edge avant-garde. His classical influences included Raphael, Bronzino, Francisco de Zurbarán, Vermeer and Velázquez. He used both classical and modernist techniques, sometimes in separate works, and sometimes combined. Exhibitions of his works in Barcelona attracted much attention along with mixtures of praise and puzzled debate from critics. Dalí grew a flamboyant moustache, influenced by 17th-century Spanish master painter Diego Velázquez. The moustache became an iconic trademark of his appearance for the rest of his life. 1929 to World War II In 1929, Dalí collaborated with surrealist film director Luis Buñuel on the short film Un Chien Andalou (An Andalusian Dog). His main contribution was to help Buñuel write the script for the film. Dalí later claimed to have also played a significant role in the filming of the project, but this is not substantiated by contemporary accounts. Also, in August 1929, Dalí met his lifelong and primary muse, inspiration, and future wife Gala, born Elena Ivanovna Diakonova. She was a Russian immigrant ten years his senior, who at that time was married to surrealist poet Paul Éluard. In the same year, Dalí had important professional exhibitions and officially joined the Surrealist group in the Montparnasse quarter of Paris. His work had already been heavily influenced by surrealism for two years. The Surrealists hailed what Dalí called his paranoiac-critical method of accessing the subconscious for greater artistic creativity. Meanwhile, Dalí’s relationship with his father was close to rupture. Don Salvador Dalí y Cusi strongly disapproved of his son’s romance with Gala, and saw his connection to the Surrealists as a bad influence on his morals. The final straw was when Don Salvador read in a Barcelona newspaper that his son had recently exhibited in Paris a drawing of the Sacred Heart of Jesus Christ, with a provocative inscription: „Sometimes, I spit for fun on my mother’s portrait”. Outraged, Don Salvador demanded that his son recant publicly. Dalí refused, perhaps out of fear of expulsion from the Surrealist group, and was violently thrown out of his paternal home on December 28, 1929. His father told him that he would be disinherited, and that he should never set foot in Cadaqués again. The following summer, Dalí and Gala rented a small fisherman’s cabin in a nearby bay at Port Lligat. He bought the place, and over the years enlarged it by buying the neighbouring fishermen cabins, gradually building his much beloved villa by the sea. Dalí’s father would eventually relent and come to accept his son’s companion. The Persistence of Memory (1931) In 1931, Dalí painted one of his most famous works, The Persistence of Memory, which introduced a surrealistic image of soft, melting pocket watches. The general interpretation of the work is that the soft watches are a rejection of the assumption that time is rigid or deterministic. This idea is supported by other images in the work, such as the wide expanding landscape, and other limp watches shown being devoured by ants. Dalí and Gala, having lived together since 1929, were married in 1934 in a semi-secret civil ceremony. They later remarried in a Catholic ceremony in 1958. In addition to inspiring many artworks throughout her life, Gala would act as Dalí’s business manager, supporting their extravagant lifestyle while adeptly steering clear of insolvency. Gala seemed to tolerate Dalí’s dalliances with younger muses, secure in her own position as his primary relationship. Dalí continued to paint her as they both aged, producing sympathetic and adoring images of his muse. The „tense, complex and ambiguous relationship” lasting over 50 years would later become the subject of an opera, Jo, Dalí (I, Dalí) by Catalan composer Xavier Benguerel. Dalí was introduced to the United States by art dealer Julien Levy in 1934. The exhibition in New York of Dalí’s works, including Persistence of Memory, created an immediate sensation. Social Register listees feted him at a specially organized „Dalí Ball”. He showed up wearing a glass case on his chest, which contained a brassiere. In that year, Dalí and Gala also attended a masquerade party in New York, hosted for them by heiress Caresse Crosby. For their costumes, they dressed as the Lindbergh baby and his kidnapper. The resulting uproar in the press was so great that Dalí apologized. When he returned to Paris, the Surrealists confronted him about his apology for a surrealist act. While the majority of the Surrealist artists had become increasingly associated with leftist politics, Dalí maintained an ambiguous position on the subject of the proper relationship between politics and art. Leading surrealist André Breton accused Dalí of defending the „new” and „irrational” in „the Hitler phenomenon”, but Dalí quickly rejected this claim, saying, „I am Hitlerian neither in fact nor intention”. Dalí insisted that surrealism could exist in an apolitical context and refused to explicitly denounce fascism. Among other factors, this had landed him in trouble with his colleagues. Later in 1934, Dalí was subjected to a „trial”, in which he was formally expelled from the Surrealist group. To this, Dalí retorted, „I myself am surrealism”. In 1936, Dalí took part in the London International Surrealist Exhibition. His lecture, titled Fantômes paranoiaques authentiques, was delivered while wearing a deep-sea diving suit and helmet.He had arrived carrying a billiard cue and leading a pair of Russian wolfhounds, and had to have the helmet unscrewed as he gasped for breath. He commented that „I just wanted to show that I was ‘plunging deeply’ into the human mind.” In 1936, Dalí, aged 32, was featured on the cover of Time magazine. Also in 1936, at the premiere screening of Joseph Cornell’s film Rose Hobart at Julien Levy’s gallery in New York City, Dalí became famous for another incident. Levy’s program of short surrealist films was timed to take place at the same time as the first surrealism exhibition at the Museum of Modern Art, featuring Dalí’s work. Dalí was in the audience at the screening, but halfway through the film, he knocked over the projector in a rage. „My idea for a film is exactly that, and I was going to propose it to someone who would pay to have it made”, he said. „I never wrote it down or told anyone, but it is as if he had stolen it”. Other versions of Dalí’s accusation tend to the more poetic: „He stole it from my subconscious!” or even „He stole my dreams!” In this period, Dalí’s main patron in London was the very wealthy Edward James. He had helped Dalí emerge into the art world by purchasing many works and by supporting him financially for two years. They also collaborated on two of the most enduring icons of the Surrealist movement: the Lobster Telephone and the Mae West Lips Sofa. In 1938, Dalí met Sigmund Freud thanks to Stefan Zweig. Dalí started to sketch Freud’s portrait, while the 82-year-old celebrity confided to others that „This boy looks like a fanatic.” Dalí was delighted upon hearing later about this comment from his hero. Later, in September 1938, Salvador Dalí was invited by Gabrielle Coco Chanel to her house „La Pausa” in Roquebrune on the French Riviera. There he painted numerous paintings he later exhibited at Julien Levy Gallery in New York. At the end of the 20th century, „La Pausa” was partially replicated at the Dallas Museum of Art to welcome the Reeves collection and part of Chanel’s original furniture for the house. Also in 1938, Dalí unveiled Rainy Taxi, a three-dimensional artwork, consisting of an actual automobile with two mannequin occupants. The piece was first displayed at the Galerie Beaux-Arts in Paris at the Exposition Internationale du Surréalisme, organised by André Breton and Paul Éluard. The Exposition was designed by artist Marcel Duchamp, who also served as host. At the 1939 New York World’s Fair, Dalí debuted his Dream of Venus surrealist pavilion, located in the Amusements Area of the exposition. It featured bizarre sculptures, statues, and live nude models in „costumes” made of fresh seafood, an event photographed by Horst P. Horst, George Platt Lynes and Murray Korman. Like most attractions in the Amusements Area, an admission fee was charged. In 1939, André Breton coined the derogatory nickname „Avida Dollars”, an anagram for „Salvador Dalí”, a phonetic rendering of the French phrase avide à dollars, meaning „eager for dollars”. This was a derisive reference to the increasing commercialization of Dalí’s work, and the perception that Dalí sought self-aggrandizement through fame and fortune. The Surrealists, many of whom were closely connected to the French Communist Party at the time, expelled him from their movement. Some surrealists henceforth spoke of Dalí in the past tense, as if he were dead. The Surrealist movement and various members thereof (such as Ted Joans) would continue to issue extremely harsh polemics against Dalí until the time of his death, and beyond. World War II In 1940, as World War II tore through Europe, Dalí and Gala retreated to the United States, where they lived for eight years splitting their time between New York and Monterey, California. They were able to escape because on June 20, 1940, they were issued visas by Aristides de Sousa Mendes, Portuguese consul in Bordeaux, France. Dalí’s arrival in New York was one of the catalysts in the development of that city as a world art center in the post-War years. Salvador and Gala Dalí crossed into Portugal and subsequently sailed on the Excambion from Lisbon to New York in August 1940. After the move, Dalí returned to the practice of Catholicism. „During this period, Dalí never stopped writing”, wrote Robert and Nicolas Descharnes. Dalí worked prolifically in a variety of media during this period, designing jewelry, clothes, furniture, stage sets for plays and ballet, and retail store display windows. In 1939, while working on a window display for Bonwit Teller, he became so enraged by unauthorized changes to his work that he shoved a decorative bathtub through a plate glass window. Dali spent the winter of 1940-41 in at Hampton Manor, the residence of bra designer and patron of the arts Caresse Crosby, near Bowling Green in Caroline County, Virginia. During his time there, he spent his time on various projects. He was described as a „showman” by residents in the local newspaper. In 1941, Dalí drafted a film scenario for Jean Gabin called Moontide. In 1942, he published his autobiography, The Secret Life of Salvador Dalí. He wrote catalogs for his exhibitions, such as that at the Knoedler Gallery in New York in 1943. Therein he attacked some often-used surrealist techniques by proclaiming, „Surrealism will at least have served to give experimental proof that total sterility and attempts at automatizations have gone too far and have led to a totalitarian system. … Today’s laziness and the total lack of technique have reached their paroxysm in the psychological signification of the current use of the college” (collage). He also wrote a novel, published in 1944, about a fashion salon for automobiles. This resulted in a drawing by Edwin Cox in The Miami Herald, depicting Dalí dressing an automobile in an evening gown. In The Secret Life, Dalí suggested that he had split with Luis Buñuel because the latter was a Communist and an atheist. Buñuel was fired (or resigned) from his position at the Museum of Modern Art (MOMA), supposedly after Cardinal Spellman of New York went to see Iris Barry, head of the film department at MOMA. Buñuel then went back to Hollywood where he worked in the dubbing department of Warner Brothers from 1942 to 1946. In his 1982 autobiography Mon Dernier soupir (My Last Sigh, 1983), Buñuel wrote that, over the years, he had rejected Dalí’s attempts at reconciliation. An Italian friar, Gabriele Maria Berardi, claimed to have performed an exorcism on Dalí while he was in France in 1947. In 2005, a sculpture of Christ on the Cross was discovered in the friar’s estate. It had been claimed that Dalí gave this work to his exorcist out of gratitude, and two Spanish art experts confirmed that there were adequate stylistic reasons to believe the sculpture was made by Dalí. Later years in Spain Dalí in 1972 In 1948 Dalí and Gala moved back into their house in Port Lligat, on the coast near Cadaqués. For the next three decades, he would spend most of his time there painting, taking time off and spending winters with his wife in Paris and New York. His acceptance and implicit embrace of Franco’s dictatorship were strongly disapproved of by other Spanish artists and intellectuals who remained in exile. In 1959, André Breton organized an exhibit called Homage to Surrealism, celebrating the fortieth anniversary of Surrealism, which contained works by Dalí, Joan Miró, Enrique Tábara, and Eugenio Granell. Breton vehemently fought against the inclusion of Dalí’s Sistine Madonna in the International Surrealism Exhibition in New York the following year. Late in his career Dalí did not confine himself to painting, but explored many unusual or novel media and processes: for example, he experimented with bulletist artworks. Many of his late works incorporated optical illusions, negative space, visual puns and trompe l’œil visual effects. He also experimented with pointillism, enlarged half-tone dot grids (a technique which Roy Lichtenstein would later use), and stereoscopic images. He was among the first artists to employ holography in an artistic manner. In Dalí’s later years, young artists such as Andy Warhol proclaimed him an important influence on pop art. Dalí also developed a keen interest in natural science and mathematics. This is manifested in several of his paintings, notably from the 1950s, in which he painted his subjects as composed of rhinoceros horn shapes. According to Dalí, the rhinoceros horn signifies divine geometry because it grows in a logarithmic spiral. He linked the rhinoceros to themes of chastity and to the Virgin Mary. Dalí was also fascinated by DNA and the tesseract (a 4-dimensional cube); an unfolding of a hypercube is featured in the painting Crucifixion (Corpus Hypercubus). At some point, Dalí had a glass floor installed in a room near his studio. He made extensive use of it to study foreshortening, both from above and from below, incorporating dramatic perspectives of figures and objects into his paintings. He also delighted in using the room for entertaining guests and visitors to his house and studio. Dalí’s post–World War II period bore the hallmarks of technical virtuosity and an intensifying interest in optical effects, science, and religion. He became an increasingly devout Catholic, while at the same time he had been inspired by the shock of Hiroshima and the dawning of the „atomic age”. Therefore, Dalí labeled this period „Nuclear Mysticism”. In paintings such as The Madonna of Port Lligat (first version, 1949) and Corpus Hypercubus (1954), Dalí sought to synthesize Christian iconography with images of material disintegration inspired by nuclear physics. His Nuclear Mysticism works included such notable pieces as La Gare de Perpignan (1965) and The Hallucinogenic Toreador (1968–70). In 1960, Dalí began work on his Theatre and Museum in his home town of Figueres; it was his largest single project and a main focus of his energy through 1974, when it opened. He continued to make additions through the mid-1980s. Dalí continued to indulge in publicity stunts and self-consciously outrageous behavior. To promote his 1962 book The World of Salvador Dalí, he appeared in a Manhattan bookstore on a bed, wired up to a machine that traced his brain waves and blood pressure. He would autograph books while thus monitored, and the book buyer would also be given the paper chart recording. In 1968, Dalí filmed a humorous television advertisement for Lanvin (fr) chocolates. In this, he proclaims in French „Je suis fou du chocolat Lanvin!” („I’m crazy about Lanvin chocolate!”) while biting a morsel, causing him to become cross-eyed and his moustache to swivel upwards. In 1969, he designed the Chupa Chups logo, in addition to facilitating the design of the advertising campaign for the 1969 Eurovision Song Contest and creating a large on-stage metal sculpture that stood at the Teatro Real in Madrid. In the television programme Dirty Dalí: A Private View broadcast on Channel 4 on June 3, 2007, art critic Brian Sewell described his acquaintance with Dalí in the late 1960s, which included lying down in the fetal position without trousers in the armpit of a figure of Christ and masturbating for Dalí, who pretended to take photos while fumbling in his own trousers. Final years and death In 1968, Dalí had bought a castle in Púbol for Gala; and starting in 1971 she would retreat there alone for weeks at a time. By Dalí’s own admission, he had agreed not to go there without written permission from his wife. His fears of abandonment and estrangement from his longtime artistic muse contributed to depression and failing health. In 1980 at age 76, Dalí’s health took a catastrophic turn. His right hand trembled terribly, with Parkinson-like symptoms. His near-senile wife allegedly had been dosing him with a dangerous cocktail of unprescribed medicine that damaged his nervous system, thus causing an untimely end to his artistic capacity. In 1982, King Juan Carlos bestowed on Dalí the title of Marqués de Dalí de Púbol (Marquis of Dalí de Púbol) in the nobility of Spain, hereby referring to Púbol, the place where he lived. The title was in first instance hereditary, but on request of Dalí changed to life only in 1983. Gala died on 10 June 1982, at the age of 87. After Gala’s death, Dalí lost much of his will to live. He deliberately dehydrated himself, possibly as a suicide attempt, with claims stating he had tried to put himself into a state of suspended animation as he had read that some microorganisms could do. He moved from Figueres to the castle in Púbol, which was the site of her death and her grave. In May 1983, Dalí revealed what would be his last painting, The Swallow’s Tail, a work heavily influenced by the mathematical catastrophe theory of René Thom. In 1984, a fire broke out in his bedroom under unclear circumstances. It was possibly a suicide attempt by Dalí, or possibly simple negligence by his staff. Dalí was rescued by friend and collaborator Robert Descharnes and returned to Figueres, where a group of his friends, patrons, and fellow artists saw to it that he was comfortable living in his Theater-Museum in his final years. There have been allegations that Dalí was forced by his guardians to sign blank canvases that would later, even after his death, be used in forgeries and sold as originals. It is also alleged that he knowingly sold otherwise-blank signed lithograph paper, possibly producing over 50,000 such sheets from 1965 until his death. As a result, art dealers tend to be wary of late works attributed to Dalí. In November 1988, Dalí entered the hospital with heart failure; a pacemaker had been implanted previously. On December 5, 1988, he was visited by King Juan Carlos, who confessed that he had always been a serious devotee of Dalí. Dalí gave the king a drawing (Head of Europa, which would turn out to be Dalí’s final drawing) after the king visited him on his deathbed. On the morning of 23 January 1989, while his favorite record of Tristan and Isolde played, Dalí died of heart failure at Figueres at the age of 84. He is buried in the crypt below the stage of his Theatre and Museum in Figueres. The location is across the street from the church of Sant Pere, where he had his baptism, first communion, and funeral, and is only three blocks from the house where he was born. The Gala-Salvador Dalí Foundation currently serves as his official estate. The US copyright representative for the Gala-Salvador Dalí Foundation is the Artists Rights Society. In 2002, the Society made news when it asked Google to remove a customized version of its logo put up to commemorate Dalí, alleging that portions of specific artworks under its protection had been used without permission. Google complied with the request, but denied that there was any copyright violation. Symbolism Dalí employed extensive symbolism in his work. For instance, the hallmark „melting watches” that first appear in The Persistence of Memory suggest Einstein’s theory that time is relative and not fixed. The idea for clocks functioning symbolically in this way came to Dalí when he was staring at a runny piece of Camembert cheese on a hot August day. The elephant is also a recurring image in Dalí’s works. It appeared in his 1944 work Dream Caused by the Flight of a Bee Around a Pomegranate a Second Before Awakening. The elephants, inspired by Gian Lorenzo Bernini’s sculpture base in Rome of an elephant carrying an ancient obelisk, are portrayed „with long, multijointed, almost invisible legs of desire” along with obelisks on their backs. Coupled with the image of their brittle legs, these encumbrances, noted for their phallic overtones, create a sense of phantom reality. „The elephant is a distortion in space”, one analysis explains, „its spindly legs contrasting the idea of weightlessness with structure.” „I am painting pictures which make me die for joy, I am creating with an absolute naturalness, without the slightest aesthetic concern, I am making things that inspire me with a profound emotion and I am trying to paint them honestly.” —Salvador Dalí, in Dawn Ades, Dalí and Surrealism. The egg is another common Dalíesque image. He connects the egg to the prenatal and intrauterine, thus using it to symbolize hope and love; it appears in The Great Masturbator and The Metamorphosis of Narcissus. The Metamorphosis of Narcissus also symbolized death and petrification. Various other animals appear throughout his work as well: ants point to death, decay, and immense sexual desire; the snail is connected to the human head (he saw a snail on a bicycle outside Freud’s house when he first met Sigmund Freud); and locusts are a symbol of waste and fear. Both Dalí and his father enjoyed eating sea urchins, freshly caught in the sea near Cadaqués. The symmetry of the sea urchin fascinated Dalí and adapted its form to many art works and other foods also appear throughout his work. Science References to Dalí in the context of science are made in terms of his fascination with the paradigm shift that accompanied the birth of quantum mechanics in the twentieth century. Inspired by Werner Heisenberg’s uncertainty principle, in 1958 he wrote in his „Anti-Matter Manifesto”: „In the Surrealist period, I wanted to create the iconography of the interior world and the world of the marvelous, of my father Freud. Today, the exterior world and that of physics has transcended the one of psychology. My father today is Dr. Heisenberg.” In this respect, The Disintegration of the Persistence of Memory, which appeared in 1954, in harking back to The Persistence of Memory and in portraying that painting in fragmentation and disintegration, summarizes Dalí’s acknowledgment of the new science. Endeavors outside painting Dalí was a versatile artist. Some of his more popular works are sculptures and other objects, and he is also noted for his contributions to theatre, fashion, and photography, among other areas. Sculptures and other objects Homage to Newton (1985). Signed and numbered cast no. 5/8. Bronze with dark patina. Size: 388 x 210 x 133cm. UOB Plaza, Singapore. Dalí’s homage to Isaac Newton, with an open torso and suspended heart to indicate „open-heartedness,” and an open head indicating „open-mindedness”—two very important qualities for scientific discovery and successful human endeavors Two of the most popular objects of the surrealist movement were Lobster Telephone and Mae West Lips Sofa, completed by Dalí in 1936 and 1937, respectively. Surrealist artist and patron Edward James commissioned both of these pieces from Dalí; James inherited a large English estate in West Dean, West Sussex when he was five and was one of the foremost supporters of the surrealists in the 1930s. „Lobsters and telephones had strong sexual connotations for [Dalí]”, according to the display caption for the Lobster Telephone at the Tate Gallery, „and he drew a close analogy between food and sex.” The telephone was functional, and James purchased four of them from Dalí to replace the phones in his retreat home. One now appears at the Tate Gallery; the second can be found at the German Telephone Museum in Frankfurt; the third belongs to the Edward James Foundation; and the fourth is at the National Gallery of Australia. The wood and satin Mae West Lips Sofa was shaped after the lips of actress Mae West, whom Dalí apparently found fascinating. West was previously the subject of Dalí’s 1935 painting The Face of Mae West. The Mae West Lips Sofa currently resides at the Brighton and Hove Museum in England. Between 1941 and 1970, Dalí created an ensemble of 39 pieces of jewelry; many pieces are intricate, and some contain moving parts. The most famous assemblage, The Royal Heart, is made of gold and is encrusted with 46 rubies, 42 diamonds, and four emeralds, created in such a way that the center „beats” much like a real heart. Dalí himself commented that „Without an audience, without the presence of spectators, these jewels would not fulfill the function for which they came into being. The viewer, then, is the ultimate artist.” The „Dalí – Joies” („The Jewels of Dalí”) collection can be seen at the Dalí Theater Museum in Figueres, Catalonia, Spain, where it is on permanent exhibition. Dalí took a stab at industrial design in the 1970s with a 500-piece run of the upscale „Suomi” tableware by Timo Sarpaneva that Dalí decorated for the German Rosenthal porcelain maker’s „Studio Linie”. Theatre and film In theatre, Dalí constructed the scenery for Federico García Lorca’s 1927 romantic play Mariana Pineda.[86] For Bacchanale (1939), a ballet based on and set to the music of Richard Wagner’s 1845 opera Tannhäuser, Dalí provided both the set design and the libretto. Bacchanale was followed by set designs for Labyrinth in 1941 and The Three-Cornered Hat in 1949. Dalí became intensely interested in film when he was young, going to the theatre most Sundays. He was part of the era where silent films were being viewed and drawing on the medium of film became popular. He believed there were two dimensions to the theories of film and cinema: „things themselves”, the facts that are presented in the world of the camera; and „photographic imagination”, the way the camera shows the picture and how creative or imaginative it looks. Dalí was active in front of and behind the scenes in the film world. He is credited as co-creator of Luis Buñuel’s surrealist film Un Chien Andalou, a 17-minute French art film co-written with Luis Buñuel that is widely remembered for its graphic opening scene simulating the slashing of a human eyeball with a razor. This film is what Dalí is known for in the independent film world. Un Chien Andalou was Dalí’s way of creating his dreamlike qualities in the real world. Images would change and scenes would switch, leading the viewer in a completely different direction from the one they were previously viewing. The second film he produced with Buñuel was entitled L’Age d’Or, and it was performed at Studio 28 in Paris in 1930. L’Age d’Or was „banned for years after fascist and anti-Semitic groups staged a stink bomb and ink-throwing riot in the Paris theater where it was shown”. Although negative aspects of society were being thrown into the life of Dalí which affected the commercial success of his artwork, it did not hold him back from expressing his own ideas and beliefs in his art. Both of these films, Un Chien Andalou and L’Age d’Or, have had a tremendous impact on the independent surrealist film movement. „If Un Chien Andalou stands as the supreme record of Surrealism’s adventures into the realm of the unconscious, then L’Âge d’Or is perhaps the most trenchant and implacable expression of its revolutionary intent”. Dalí worked with other famous filmmakers, such as Alfred Hitchcock. The most well-known of his film projects is probably the dream sequence in Hitchcock’s Spellbound, which heavily delves into themes of psychoanalysis. Hitchcock needed a dreamlike quality to his film, which dealt with the idea that a repressed experience can directly trigger a neurosis, and he knew that Dalí’s work would help create the atmosphere he wanted in his film. He also worked on a documentary called Chaos and Creation, which has a lot of artistic references thrown into it to help one see what Dalí’s vision of art really is. Dalí also worked with Walt Disney on the short film production Destino. Completed in 2003 by Baker Bloodworth and Walt’s nephew Roy E. Disney, it contains dreamlike images of strange figures flying and walking about. It is based on Mexican songwriter Armando Dominguez’ song „Destino”. When Disney hired Dalí to help produce the film in 1946, they were not prepared for the quantity of work that lay ahead. For eight months, they worked on it continuously, until their efforts had to stop when they realized they were in financial trouble. However, it was eventually finished 48 years later, and shown in various film festivals. The film consists of Dalí’s artwork interacting with Disney’s character animation. Dalí completed only one other film in his lifetime, Impressions of Upper Mongolia (1975), in which he narrated a story about an expedition in search of giant hallucinogenic mushrooms. The imagery was based on microscopic uric acid stains on the brass band of a ballpoint pen on which Dalí had been urinating for several weeks. In the mid-1970s, film director Alejandro Jodorowsky cast Dali in the role of the Padishah Emperor in a production of Dune, based on the novel by Frank Herbert. According to the 2013 documentary on the film, Jodorowsky’s Dune, Jodorowsky met Dali in the King Cole Bar in the St. Regis hotel in Manhattan to discuss the role. Dali expressed interest in the film but required as a condition of appearing that he be made the highest paid actor in Hollywood. Jodorowsky accordingly cast Dali as the emperor, but he planned to cut Dali’s screen time to mere minutes, promising he be the highest-paid actor on a per minute basis. The film was ultimately never made. In the year 1927, Dali began to write the libretto for an opera, which he called Être Dieu (To Be God). He wrote this together with Federico Garcia Lorca one afternoon in the Café Regina Victoria in Madrid. In 1974, for a recording in Paris, the opera was adapted by the Spanish writer Manuel Vazquez Montalban, who wrote the libretto, while the music was created by Igor Wakhevitch. During the recording, however, Dali refused to follow the text written by Montalban, and instead, began to improvise in the belief that “Salvador Dali never repeats himself.” Fashion and photography Dalí built a repertoire in the fashion and photography businesses as well. His cooperation with Italian fashion designer Elsa Schiaparelli was well-known, when Dalí was commissioned to produce a white dress with a lobster print. Other designs Dalí made for her include a shoe-shaped hat, and a pink belt with lips for a buckle. He was also involved in creating textile designs and perfume bottles. In 1950, Dalí created a special „costume for the year 2045” with Christian Dior. Photographers with whom he collaborated include Man Ray, Brassaï, Cecil Beaton, and Philippe Halsman. With Man Ray and Brassaï, Dalí photographed nature; with the others, he explored a range of obscure topics, including (with Halsman) the Dalí Atomica series (1948) — inspired by his painting Leda Atomica — which in one photograph depicts „a painter’s easel, three cats, a bucket of water, and Dalí himself floating in the air.” One of Dalí’s most unorthodox artistic creations may have been an entire persona, in addition to his own. At a French nightclub in 1965, Dalí met Amanda Lear, a fashion model then known as Peki D’Oslo. Lear became his protégée and muse, later writing about their affair in her authorized biography My Life With Dalí (1986). Transfixed by the mannish, larger-than-life Lear, Dalí masterminded her successful transition from modeling to the music world, advising her on self-presentation and helping spin mysterious stories about her origin as she took the disco-art scene by storm. According to Lear, she and Dalí were united in a „spiritual marriage” on a deserted mountaintop. She was referred to as Dalí’s „Frankenstein,” and some observers believed Lear’s assumed name was a pun on the French phrase „L’Amant Dalí”, or „Lover of Dalí”. Lear took the place of an earlier muse, Ultra Violet (Isabelle Collin Dufresne), who had left Dalí’s side to join The Factory of Andy Warhol. Both former apprentices would go on to successfully promote their own careers in the arts. On April 10, 2005, they joined a panel discussion „Reminiscences of Dalí: A Conversation with Friends of the Artist” as part of a symposium „The Dalí Renaissance” for a major retrospective Dalí show at the Philadelphia Museum of Art. Their conversation is recorded in the 236-page exhibition catalog The Dalí Renaissance: New Perspectives on His Life and Art after 1940. Architecture Architectural achievements include his Port Lligat house near Cadaqués, as well as his Theatre and Museum in Figueres. A major work outside of Spain was the temporary Dream of Venus surrealist pavilion at the 1939 New York World’s Fair, which contained within it a number of unusual sculptures and statues, including live performers posing as statues. Literary works Under the encouragement of poet Federico García Lorca, Dalí attempted an approach to a literary career through the means of the „pure novel”. In his only novel Hidden Faces (1944), Dalí describes, in vividly visual terms, the intrigues and love affairs of a group of dazzling, eccentric aristocrats who, with their luxurious and extravagant lifestyle, symbolize the decadence of the 1930s. The Comte de Grandsailles and Solange de Cléda pursue an awkward love affair, but property transactions, interwar political turmoil, the French Resistance, his marriage to another woman and her responsibilities as a landowner and businesswoman drive them apart. It is variously set in Paris, rural France, Casablanca in North Africa and Palm Springs in the United States. Secondary characters include ageing widow Barbara Rogers, her bisexual daughter Veronica, Veronica’s sometime female lover Betka, and Baba, a disfigured US fighter pilot. The novel concludes at the end of the Second World War, with Solange dying before Grandsailles can return to his former property and reunite with her. The novel was written in New York and translated by Hakon Chevalier. His other, nonfictional literary works include The Secret Life of Salvador Dalí (1942), Diary of a Genius (1952–63), and Oui: The Paranoid-Critical Revolution (1927–33). Graphic arts The artist worked extensively in the graphic arts, producing many etchings and lithographs. While his early work in printmaking is equal in quality to his important paintings, as he grew older he would sell the rights to images but not be involved in the print production itself. In addition, a large number of fakes were produced in the 1980s and 1990s, thus further confusing the Dalí print market. Publicity After his arrival in the United States, Dalí engaged in heavy self-promotion. Later, Dali Museum executive director Hank Hine appreciated his „ingenious self-promotion” during the 2016 VR exhibition Disney and Dalí: Architects of the Imagination. While many of his stunts were seen as antics by art critics at the time, they were later interpreted as performances. His status as an extravagant artist was put to use in several publicity campaigns for Lanvin chocolates, „If you got it, flaunt it!” for Braniff International Airlines (1968), and Iberia Airlines. Politics and personality Salvador Dalí’s politics played a significant role in his emergence as an artist. In his youth, he embraced both anarchism and communism, though his writings tell anecdotes of making radical political statements more to shock listeners than from any deep conviction. This was in keeping with Dalí’s allegiance to the Dada movement. As he grew older his political allegiances changed, especially as the Surrealist movement went through transformations under the leadership of the Trotskyist writer André Breton, who is said to have called Dalí in for questioning on his politics. In his 1970 book Dalí by Dalí, Dalí declared himself to be both an anarchist and monarchist. With the outbreak of the Spanish Civil War (1936–1939), Dalí fled from the fighting and refused to align himself with any group. He did the same during World War II (1939–1945), for which he was heavily criticized; George Orwell accused him of „scuttling off like a rat as soon as France is in danger” after Dalí had prospered in France during the pre-war years. „When the European War approaches he has one preoccupation only: how to find a place which has good cookery and from which he can make a quick bolt if danger comes too near”, Orwell observed. In a notable 1944 review of Dalí’s autobiography, Orwell wrote, „One ought to be able to hold in one’s head simultaneously the two facts that Dalí is a good draughtsman and a disgusting human being”. After his return to Catalonia post World War II, Dalí moved closer to the authoritarian regime of Francisco Franco. Some of Dalí’s statements were supportive, congratulating Franco for his actions aimed „at clearing Spain of destructive forces”.Dalí, having returned to the Catholic faith and becoming increasingly religious as time went on, may have been referring to the Republican atrocities during the Spanish Civil War. Dalí sent telegrams to Franco, praising him for signing death warrants for prisoners. He even met Franco personally, and painted a portrait of Franco’s granddaughter. He also once sent a telegram praising the Conducător, Romanian Communist leader Nicolae Ceauşescu, for his adoption of a scepter as part of his regalia. The Romanian daily newspaper Scînteia published it, without suspecting its mocking aspect. One of Dalí’s few possible bits of open disobedience was his continued praise of Federico García Lorca even in the years when Lorca’s works were banned. Dalí, a colorful and imposing presence with his ever–present long cape, walking stick, haughty expression, and upturned waxed moustache, was famous for having said that „every morning upon awakening, I experience a supreme pleasure: that of being Salvador Dalí”.The entertainer Cher and her husband Sonny Bono, when young, came to a party at Dalí’s expensive residence in New York’s Plaza Hotel and were startled when Cher sat down on an oddly shaped sexual vibrator left in an easy chair. In the 1960s, he gave the actress Mia Farrow a dead mouse in a bottle, hand-painted, which her mother, actress Maureen O’Sullivan, demanded be removed from her house. Dali’s religious views were a matter of interest. In interviews Dali revealed his mysticism. In his later years, while still remaining a Roman Catholic, Dalí also claimed to be an agnostic. When signing autographs for fans, Dalí would always keep their pens. Salvador Dalí frequently traveled with his pet ocelot Babou, even bringing it aboard the luxury ocean liner SS France. He was also known to avoid paying tabs at restaurants by drawing on the checks he wrote. His theory was the restaurant would never want to cash such a valuable piece of art, and he was usually correct. Besides visual puns, Dalí shared in the surrealist delight in verbal puns, obscure allusions, and word games. He often spoke in a bizarre combination of French, Spanish, Catalan, and English which was sometimes amusing as well as arcane. His copious writings freely mixed words from different languages with terms entirely of his own devising. When interviewed by Mike Wallace on his 60 Minutes television show, Dalí kept referring to himself in the third person, as the „Divino Dalí” (Divine Dalí), and told the startled Wallace matter-of-factly that he did not believe in his death. On January 27, 1957, he was the mystery guest on the US panel show What’s My Line? and signed the chalkboard with thick white paint. His answers were misleading and prompted guidance from host Daly. Dali appeared in public a number of occasions with an anteater, notably on a lead in Paris in 1969 and on the The Dick Cavett Show on March 6, 1970 when he carried a small anteater on-stage. It has been claimed that he surprised fellow guest Lillian Gish by flinging the anteater onto her lap. Legacy Salvador Dalí has been cited as a major inspiration by many modern artists, such as Damien Hirst, Jeff Koons and most other modern surrealists. Salvador Dalí’s manic expression and famous moustache have made him something of a cultural icon for the bizarre and surreal. He has been portrayed on film by Robert Pattinson in Little Ashes (2008), and by Adrien Brody in Midnight in Paris (2011). He was also parodied in a series of painting skits on Captain Kangaroo as „Salvador Silly” (played by Cosmo Allegretti) and in a Sesame Street muppet skit as „Salvador Dada” (an orange gold Anything Muppet performed by Jim Henson). The Dali crater on the planet Mercury is named for him. Listing of selected works Dalí produced over 1,500 paintings in his career in addition to producing illustrations for books, lithographs, designs for theatre sets and costumes, a great number of drawings, dozens of sculptures, and various other projects, including an animated short film for Disney. He also collaborated with director Jack Bond in 1965, creating a movie titled Dalí in New York. Below is a chronological sample of important and representative work, as well as some notes on what Dalí did in particular years. In Carlos Lozano’s biography, Sex, Surrealism, Dalí, and Me, produced with the collaboration of Clifford Thurlow, Lozano makes it clear that Dalí never stopped being a surrealist. As Dalí said of himself: „the only difference between me and the surrealists is that I am a surrealist.” 1910 Landscape Near Figueras 1913 Vilabertin 1916 Fiesta in Figueras (begun 1914) 1917 View of Cadaqués with Shadow of Mount Pani 1918 Crepuscular Old Man (begun 1917) 1919 Port of Cadaqués (Night) (begun 1918) and Self-portrait in the Studio 1920 The Artist’s Father at Llane Beach and View of Portdogué (Port Aluger) 1921 The Garden of Llaner (Cadaqués) (begun 1920) and Self-portrait 1922 Cabaret Scene and Night Walking Dreams 1923 Self Portrait with L’Humanite and Cubist Self Portrait with La Publicitat 1924 Still Life (Syphon and Bottle of Rum) (for García Lorca) and Portrait of Luis Buñuel 1925 Large Harlequin and Small Bottle of Rum and a series of fine portraits of his sister Anna Maria, most notably Figure at a Window 1926 The Basket of Bread, Girl from Figueres and Girl with Curls 1927 Composition with Three Figures (Neo-Cubist Academy) and Honey is Sweeter than Blood (his first important surrealist work) 1929 Un Chien Andalou (An Andalusian Dog) film in collaboration with Luis Buñuel, The Lugubrious Game, The Great Masturbator, The First Days of Spring, and The Profanation of the Host 1930 L’Age d’Or (The Golden Age) film in collaboration with Luis Buñuel 1931 The Persistence of Memory (his most famous work, featuring the „melting clocks”), The Old Age of William Tell, and William Tell and Gradiva 1932 The Spectre of Sex Appeal, The Birth of Liquid Desires, Anthropomorphic Bread, and Fried Eggs on the Plate without the Plate. The Invisible Man (begun 1929) completed (although not to Dalí’s own satisfaction) 1933 Retrospective Bust of a Woman (mixed media sculpture collage) and Portrait of Gala With Two Lamb Chops Balanced on Her Shoulder, Gala in the Window 1934 The Ghost of Vermeer of Delft Which Can Be Used As a Table and A Sense of Speed 1935 Archaeological Reminiscence of Millet’s Angelus and The Face of Mae West 1936 Autumn Cannibalism, Lobster Telephone, Soft Construction with Boiled Beans (Premonition of Civil War) and two works titled Morphological Echo (the first of which began in 1934) 1937 Metamorphosis of Narcissus, Swans Reflecting Elephants, The Burning Giraffe, Sleep, The Enigma of Hitler, Mae West Lips Sofa and Cannibalism in Autumn 1938 The Sublime Moment and Apparition of Face and Fruit Dish on a Beach 1939 Shirley Temple, The Youngest, Most Sacred Monster of the Cinema in Her Time 1940 Slave Market with the Disappearing Bust of Voltaire, The Face of War 1941 Honey is Sweeter than Blood 1943 The Poetry of America and Geopoliticus Child Watching the Birth of the New Man 1944 Galarina and Dream Caused by the Flight of a Bee Around a Pomegranate a Second Before Awakening 1944–48 Hidden Faces, a novel 1945, Basket of Bread—Rather Death than Shame and Fountain of Milk Flowing Uselessly on Three Shoes; also this year, Dalí collaborated with Alfred Hitchcock on a dream sequence to the film Spellbound, to mutual dissatisfaction 1946 The Temptation of St. Anthony by Salvador Dali 1948 The Elephants 1949 Leda Atomica and The Madonna of Port Lligat. Dalí returned to Catalonia this year 1951 Christ of Saint John of the Cross and Exploding Raphaelesque Head 1951 Katharine Cornell, a portrait of the famed actress 1952 Galatea of the Spheres 1954 The Disintegration of the Persistence of Memory (begun in 1952), Crucifixion (Corpus Hypercubus) and Young Virgin Auto-Sodomized by the Horns of Her Own Chastity 1955 The Sacrament of the Last Supper, Lonesome Echo, record album cover for Jackie Gleason 1956 Still Life Moving Fast, Rinoceronte vestido con puntillas 1957 Santiago el Grande oil on canvas on permanent display at Beaverbrook Art Gallery in Fredericton, NB, Canada 1958 The Meditative Rose 1959 The Discovery of America by Christopher Columbus 1960 Composición Numérica (de fond préparatoire inachevé), Acrylic and oil on canvas 1960 Dalí began work on the Teatro-Museo Gala Salvador Dalí and Portrait of Juan de Pareja, the Assistant to Velázquez 1961 Dali created one of his most interesting works –”El Triomf I el Rodoli de la Gala I en Dali” 1963–1964 They Will All Come from Saba a work in water color depicting the Magi at St. Petersburg’s Dalí Museum 1965 Dalí donates a gouache, ink and pencil drawing of the Crucifixion to the Rikers Island jail in New York City. The drawing hung in the inmate dining room from 1965 to 1981 1965 Dalí in New York 1967 Tuna Fishing 1969 Chupa Chups logo 1969 Improvisation on a Sunday Afternoon, television collaboration with the British progressive rock group Nirvana[citation needed] 1970 The Hallucinogenic Toreador, acquired in 1969 by A. Reynolds Morse & Eleanor R. Morse before it was completed[citation needed] 1972 Gala, Elena Ivanovna Diakonova – dit., GALA Bronze sculpture, piece unique 1973 „Les Diners de Gala”, an ornately illustrated cook book 1976 Gala Contemplating the Mediterranean Sea 1977 Dalí’s Hand Drawing Back the Golden Fleece in the Form of a Cloud to Show Gala Completely Nude, Very Far Away Behind the Sun (stereoscopical pair of paintings) 1981 „Femme à la tête de rose” In 1935 Dali painted the Woman with the head of roses homage to the verse of René Crevel appeared in the surrealist magazine „Le Minotaure”: <<„But it appears and it is spring. A ball of flowers will serve as his head. His brain is both the hive and the bouquet…>>. Decades later, he made it an elevated sculpture and Supported by crutches.This beautiful phytomorphic creature expresses both grace and rigidity, femininity and animality. 1983 A job that he made for decades since 1941 is published; 78 paintings that the mystical man, who liked the esoteric, painted with the help of his wife, to create a tarot deck, Dali Universal Tarot Deck is a work of art that few know . Posthumous 2003 Destino, an animated short film originally a collaboration between Dalí and Walt Disney, is released. Production on Destino began in 1945 The largest collections of Dalí’s work are at the Dalí Theatre and Museum in Figueres, Catalonia, Spain, followed by the Salvador Dalí Museum in St. Petersburg, Florida, which contains the collection of A. Reynolds Morse & Eleanor R. Morse. It holds over 1,500 works from Dalí. Other particularly significant collections include the Reina Sofia Museum in Madrid and the Salvador Dalí Gallery in San Juan Capistrano, California. Espace Dalí in Montmartre, Paris, France, as well as the Dalí Universe in London, England, contain a large collection of his drawings and sculptures. The unlikeliest venue for Dalí’s work was the Rikers Island jail in New York City. A sketch of the Crucifixion that he donated to the jail in 1965, hung in the inmate dining room for 16 years before it was moved to the prison lobby for safekeeping. Ironically, the drawing was stolen from that location in March 2003 and has not been recovered. Dalí museums and permanent exhibitions Dalí Theatre and Museum – Figueres, Catalonia, Spain Salvador Dalí House-Museum – Port Lligat, Catalonia, Spain Gala Dalí House-Museum – Púbol, Catalonia, Spain Salvador Dali Museum – St Petersburg, Florida, US Dalí Universe – Venice, Italy Espace Dalí – Paris, France Dalí, permanent exhibition – Berlin, Germany Museum-Gallery Xpo: Salvador Dali, permanent exhibition – Bruges, Belgium Art Bank, private exhibition – Pargas, Finland Dali17, permanent exhibition – Monterey, California, US Major temporary exhibitions The Dalí Renaissance: New Perspectives on His Life and Art after 1940 (2005) Philadelphia Museum of Art FOTO: Salvador Dalí Written by: Constantin Enache Salvador Domingo Felipe Jacinto Dalí i Domènech, Marqués de Dalí de Púbol (11 May 1904 – 23 January 1989), known professionally as Salvador Dalí, was a prominent Spanish surrealist painter born in Figueres, Catalonia, Spain. Dalí was a skilled draftsman, best known for the striking and bizarre images in his surrealist work. His painterly skills are often attributed to the influence of Renaissance masters. His best-known work, The Persistence of Memory, was completed in August 1931. Dalí’s expansive artistic repertoire included film, sculpture, and photography, in collaboration with a range of artists in a variety of media. Dalí attributed his „love of everything that is gilded and excessive, my passion for luxury and my love of oriental clothes” to an „Arab lineage”, claiming that his ancestors were descended from the Moors. Dalí was highly imaginative, and also enjoyed indulging in unusual and grandiose behavior. His eccentric manner and attention-grabbing public actions sometimes drew more attention than his artwork, to the dismay of those who held his work in high esteem, and to the irritation of his critics. The Dalí family in 1910: from the upper left, aunt Maria Teresa, mother, father, Salvador Dalí, aunt Caterina (later became second wife of father), sister Anna Maria and grandmother Anna Salvador Domingo Felipe Jacinto Dalí i Domènech was born on 11 May 1904, at 8:45 am GMT, at the 1st floor of Carrer Monturiol, 20 (presently 6), in the town of Figueres, in the Empordà region, close to the French border in Catalonia, Spain. In the Summer of 1912, the family moved to the top floor of Carrer Monturiol 24 (presently 10). Dalí’s older brother, who had also been named Salvador (born 12 October 1901), had died of gastroenteritis nine months earlier, on 1 August 1903. His father, Salvador Dalí i Cusí, was a middle-class lawyer and notary whose strict disciplinary approach was tempered by his wife, Felipa Domenech Ferrés, who encouraged her son’s artistic endeavors. When he was five, Dalí was taken to his brother’s grave and told by his parents that he was his brother’s reincarnation, a concept which he came to believe. Of his brother, Dalí said, „[we] resembled each other like two drops of water, but we had different reflections.” He „was probably a first version of myself but conceived too much in the absolute.” Images of his long-dead brother would reappear embedded in his later works, including Portrait of My Dead Brother (1963). Dalí also had a sister, Anna Maria, who was three years younger. In 1949, she published a book about her brother, Dalí As Seen By His Sister. His childhood friends included future FC Barcelona footballers Sagibarba and Josep Samitier.[citation needed] During holidays at the Catalan resort of Cadaqués, the trio played football (soccer) together. Dalí attended drawing school. In 1916, he also discovered modern painting on a summer vacation trip to Cadaqués with the family of Ramon Pichot, a local artist who made regular trips to Paris. The next year, Dalí’s father organized an exhibition of his charcoal drawings in their family home. He had his first public exhibition at the Municipal Theatre in Figueres in 1919, a site he would return to decades later. In February 1921, Dalí’s mother died of breast cancer. Dalí was 16 years old; he later said his mother’s death „was the greatest blow I had experienced in my life. I worshipped her… I could not resign myself to the loss of a being on whom I counted to make invisible the unavoidable blemishes of my soul.” After her death, Dalí’s father married his deceased wife’s sister. Dalí did not resent this marriage, because he had a great love and respect for his aunt. Madrid and Paris In 1922, Dalí moved into the Residencia de Estudiantes (Students’ Residence) in Madrid and studied at the Real Academia de Bellas Artes de San Fernando. A lean 1.72 metres (5 ft 7 3⁄4 in) tall, Dalí already drew attention as an eccentric and dandy. He had long hair and sideburns, coat, stockings, and knee-breeches in the style of English aesthetes of the late 19th century. At the Residencia, he became close friends with (among others) Pepín Bello, Luis Buñuel, and Federico García Lorca. The friendship with Lorca had a strong element of mutual passion, but Dalí rejected the poet’s sexual advances. However it was his paintings, in which he experimented with Cubism, that earned him the most attention from his fellow students. His only information on Cubist art had come from magazine articles and a catalog given to him by Pichot, since there were no Cubist artists in Madrid at the time. In 1924, the still-unknown Salvador Dalí illustrated a book for the first time. It was a publication of the Catalan poem Les bruixes de Llers („The Witches of Llers”) by his friend and schoolmate, poet Carles Fages de Climent. Dalí also experimented with Dada, which influenced his work throughout his life. Dalí was expelled from the Academy in 1926, shortly before his final exams when he was accused of starting an unrest. His mastery of painting skills at that time was evidenced by his realistic The Basket of Bread, painted in 1926. That same year, he made his first visit to Paris, where he met Pablo Picasso, whom the young Dalí revered. Picasso had already heard favorable reports about Dalí from Joan Miró, a fellow Catalan who introduced him to many Surrealist friends. As he developed his own style over the next few years, Dalí made a number of works heavily influenced by Picasso and Miró. Some trends in Dalí’s work that would continue throughout his life were already evident in the 1920s. Dalí devoured influences from many styles of art, ranging from the most academically classic, to the most cutting-edge avant-garde. His classical influences included Raphael, Bronzino, Francisco de Zurbarán, Vermeer and Velázquez. He used both classical and modernist techniques, sometimes in separate works, and sometimes combined. Exhibitions of his works in Barcelona attracted much attention along with mixtures of praise and puzzled debate from critics. Dalí grew a flamboyant moustache, influenced by 17th-century Spanish master painter Diego Velázquez. The moustache became an iconic trademark of his appearance for the rest of his life. 1929 to World War II In 1929, Dalí collaborated with surrealist film director Luis Buñuel on the short film Un Chien Andalou (An Andalusian Dog). His main contribution was to help Buñuel write the script for the film. Dalí later claimed to have also played a significant role in the filming of the project, but this is not substantiated by contemporary accounts. Also, in August 1929, Dalí met his lifelong and primary muse, inspiration, and future wife Gala, born Elena Ivanovna Diakonova. She was a Russian immigrant ten years his senior, who at that time was married to surrealist poet Paul Éluard. In the same year, Dalí had important professional exhibitions and officially joined the Surrealist group in the Montparnasse quarter of Paris. His work had already been heavily influenced by surrealism for two years. The Surrealists hailed what Dalí called his paranoiac-critical method of accessing the subconscious for greater artistic creativity. Meanwhile, Dalí’s relationship with his father was close to rupture. Don Salvador Dalí y Cusi strongly disapproved of his son’s romance with Gala, and saw his connection to the Surrealists as a bad influence on his morals. The final straw was when Don Salvador read in a Barcelona newspaper that his son had recently exhibited in Paris a drawing of the Sacred Heart of Jesus Christ, with a provocative inscription: „Sometimes, I spit for fun on my mother’s portrait”. Outraged, Don Salvador demanded that his son recant publicly. Dalí refused, perhaps out of fear of expulsion from the Surrealist group, and was violently thrown out of his paternal home on December 28, 1929. His father told him that he would be disinherited, and that he should never set foot in Cadaqués again. The following summer, Dalí and Gala rented a small fisherman’s cabin in a nearby bay at Port Lligat. He bought the place, and over the years enlarged it by buying the neighbouring fishermen cabins, gradually building his much beloved villa by the sea. Dalí’s father would eventually relent and come to accept his son’s companion. The Persistence of Memory (1931) In 1931, Dalí painted one of his most famous works, The Persistence of Memory, which introduced a surrealistic image of soft, melting pocket watches. The general interpretation of the work is that the soft watches are a rejection of the assumption that time is rigid or deterministic. This idea is supported by other images in the work, such as the wide expanding landscape, and other limp watches shown being devoured by ants. Dalí and Gala, having lived together since 1929, were married in 1934 in a semi-secret civil ceremony. They later remarried in a Catholic ceremony in 1958. In addition to inspiring many artworks throughout her life, Gala would act as Dalí’s business manager, supporting their extravagant lifestyle while adeptly steering clear of insolvency. Gala seemed to tolerate Dalí’s dalliances with younger muses, secure in her own position as his primary relationship. Dalí continued to paint her as they both aged, producing sympathetic and adoring images of his muse. The „tense, complex and ambiguous relationship” lasting over 50 years would later become the subject of an opera, Jo, Dalí (I, Dalí) by Catalan composer Xavier Benguerel. Dalí was introduced to the United States by art dealer Julien Levy in 1934. The exhibition in New York of Dalí’s works, including Persistence of Memory, created an immediate sensation. Social Register listees feted him at a specially organized „Dalí Ball”. He showed up wearing a glass case on his chest, which contained a brassiere. In that year, Dalí and Gala also attended a masquerade party in New York, hosted for them by heiress Caresse Crosby. For their costumes, they dressed as the Lindbergh baby and his kidnapper. The resulting uproar in the press was so great that Dalí apologized. When he returned to Paris, the Surrealists confronted him about his apology for a surrealist act. While the majority of the Surrealist artists had become increasingly associated with leftist politics, Dalí maintained an ambiguous position on the subject of the proper relationship between politics and art. Leading surrealist André Breton accused Dalí of defending the „new” and „irrational” in „the Hitler phenomenon”, but Dalí quickly rejected this claim, saying, „I am Hitlerian neither in fact nor intention”. Dalí insisted that surrealism could exist in an apolitical context and refused to explicitly denounce fascism. Among other factors, this had landed him in trouble with his colleagues. Later in 1934, Dalí was subjected to a „trial”, in which he was formally expelled from the Surrealist group. To this, Dalí retorted, „I myself am surrealism”. In 1936, Dalí took part in the London International Surrealist Exhibition. His lecture, titled Fantômes paranoiaques authentiques, was delivered while wearing a deep-sea diving suit and helmet.He had arrived carrying a billiard cue and leading a pair of Russian wolfhounds, and had to have the helmet unscrewed as he gasped for breath. He commented that „I just wanted to show that I was ‘plunging deeply’ into the human mind.” In 1936, Dalí, aged 32, was featured on the cover of Time magazine. Also in 1936, at the premiere screening of Joseph Cornell’s film Rose Hobart at Julien Levy’s gallery in New York City, Dalí became famous for another incident. Levy’s program of short surrealist films was timed to take place at the same time as the first surrealism exhibition at the Museum of Modern Art, featuring Dalí’s work. Dalí was in the audience at the screening, but halfway through the film, he knocked over the projector in a rage. „My idea for a film is exactly that, and I was going to propose it to someone who would pay to have it made”, he said. „I never wrote it down or told anyone, but it is as if he had stolen it”. Other versions of Dalí’s accusation tend to the more poetic: „He stole it from my subconscious!” or even „He stole my dreams!” In this period, Dalí’s main patron in London was the very wealthy Edward James. He had helped Dalí emerge into the art world by purchasing many works and by supporting him financially for two years. They also collaborated on two of the most enduring icons of the Surrealist movement: the Lobster Telephone and the Mae West Lips Sofa. In 1938, Dalí met Sigmund Freud thanks to Stefan Zweig. Dalí started to sketch Freud’s portrait, while the 82-year-old celebrity confided to others that „This boy looks like a fanatic.” Dalí was delighted upon hearing later about this comment from his hero. Later, in September 1938, Salvador Dalí was invited by Gabrielle Coco Chanel to her house „La Pausa” in Roquebrune on the French Riviera. There he painted numerous paintings he later exhibited at Julien Levy Gallery in New York. At the end of the 20th century, „La Pausa” was partially replicated at the Dallas Museum of Art to welcome the Reeves collection and part of Chanel’s original furniture for the house. Also in 1938, Dalí unveiled Rainy Taxi, a three-dimensional artwork, consisting of an actual automobile with two mannequin occupants. The piece was first displayed at the Galerie Beaux-Arts in Paris at the Exposition Internationale du Surréalisme, organised by André Breton and Paul Éluard. The Exposition was designed by artist Marcel Duchamp, who also served as host. At the 1939 New York World’s Fair, Dalí debuted his Dream of Venus surrealist pavilion, located in the Amusements Area of the exposition. It featured bizarre sculptures, statues, and live nude models in „costumes” made of fresh seafood, an event photographed by Horst P. Horst, George Platt Lynes and Murray Korman. Like most attractions in the Amusements Area, an admission fee was charged. In 1939, André Breton coined the derogatory nickname „Avida Dollars”, an anagram for „Salvador Dalí”, a phonetic rendering of the French phrase avide à dollars, meaning „eager for dollars”. This was a derisive reference to the increasing commercialization of Dalí’s work, and the perception that Dalí sought self-aggrandizement through fame and fortune. The Surrealists, many of whom were closely connected to the French Communist Party at the time, expelled him from their movement. Some surrealists henceforth spoke of Dalí in the past tense, as if he were dead. The Surrealist movement and various members thereof (such as Ted Joans) would continue to issue extremely harsh polemics against Dalí until the time of his death, and beyond. World War II In 1940, as World War II tore through Europe, Dalí and Gala retreated to the United States, where they lived for eight years splitting their time between New York and Monterey, California. They were able to escape because on June 20, 1940, they were issued visas by Aristides de Sousa Mendes, Portuguese consul in Bordeaux, France. Dalí’s arrival in New York was one of the catalysts in the development of that city as a world art center in the post-War years. Salvador and Gala Dalí crossed into Portugal and subsequently sailed on the Excambion from Lisbon to New York in August 1940. After the move, Dalí returned to the practice of Catholicism. „During this period, Dalí never stopped writing”, wrote Robert and Nicolas Descharnes. Dalí worked prolifically in a variety of media during this period, designing jewelry, clothes, furniture, stage sets for plays and ballet, and retail store display windows. In 1939, while working on a window display for Bonwit Teller, he became so enraged by unauthorized changes to his work that he shoved a decorative bathtub through a plate glass window. Dali spent the winter of 1940-41 in at Hampton Manor, the residence of bra designer and patron of the arts Caresse Crosby, near Bowling Green in Caroline County, Virginia. During his time there, he spent his time on various projects. He was described as a „showman” by residents in the local newspaper. In 1941, Dalí drafted a film scenario for Jean Gabin called Moontide. In 1942, he published his autobiography, The Secret Life of Salvador Dalí. He wrote catalogs for his exhibitions, such as that at the Knoedler Gallery in New York in 1943. Therein he attacked some often-used surrealist techniques by proclaiming, „Surrealism will at least have served to give experimental proof that total sterility and attempts at automatizations have gone too far and have led to a totalitarian system. … Today’s laziness and the total lack of technique have reached their paroxysm in the psychological signification of the current use of the college” (collage). He also wrote a novel, published in 1944, about a fashion salon for automobiles. This resulted in a drawing by Edwin Cox in The Miami Herald, depicting Dalí dressing an automobile in an evening gown. In The Secret Life, Dalí suggested that he had split with Luis Buñuel because the latter was a Communist and an atheist. Buñuel was fired (or resigned) from his position at the Museum of Modern Art (MOMA), supposedly after Cardinal Spellman of New York went to see Iris Barry, head of the film department at MOMA. Buñuel then went back to Hollywood where he worked in the dubbing department of Warner Brothers from 1942 to 1946. In his 1982 autobiography Mon Dernier soupir (My Last Sigh, 1983), Buñuel wrote that, over the years, he had rejected Dalí’s attempts at reconciliation. An Italian friar, Gabriele Maria Berardi, claimed to have performed an exorcism on Dalí while he was in France in 1947. In 2005, a sculpture of Christ on the Cross was discovered in the friar’s estate. It had been claimed that Dalí gave this work to his exorcist out of gratitude, and two Spanish art experts confirmed that there were adequate stylistic reasons to believe the sculpture was made by Dalí. Later years in Spain Dalí in 1972 In 1948 Dalí and Gala moved back into their house in Port Lligat, on the coast near Cadaqués. For the next three decades, he would spend most of his time there painting, taking time off and spending winters with his wife in Paris and New York. His acceptance and implicit embrace of Franco’s dictatorship were strongly disapproved of by other Spanish artists and intellectuals who remained in exile. In 1959, André Breton organized an exhibit called Homage to Surrealism, celebrating the fortieth anniversary of Surrealism, which contained works by Dalí, Joan Miró, Enrique Tábara, and Eugenio Granell. Breton vehemently fought against the inclusion of Dalí’s Sistine Madonna in the International Surrealism Exhibition in New York the following year. Late in his career Dalí did not confine himself to painting, but explored many unusual or novel media and processes: for example, he experimented with bulletist artworks. Many of his late works incorporated optical illusions, negative space, visual puns and trompe l’œil visual effects. He also experimented with pointillism, enlarged half-tone dot grids (a technique which Roy Lichtenstein would later use), and stereoscopic images. He was among the first artists to employ holography in an artistic manner. In Dalí’s later years, young artists such as Andy Warhol proclaimed him an important influence on pop art. Dalí also developed a keen interest in natural science and mathematics. This is manifested in several of his paintings, notably from the 1950s, in which he painted his subjects as composed of rhinoceros horn shapes. According to Dalí, the rhinoceros horn signifies divine geometry because it grows in a logarithmic spiral. He linked the rhinoceros to themes of chastity and to the Virgin Mary. Dalí was also fascinated by DNA and the tesseract (a 4-dimensional cube); an unfolding of a hypercube is featured in the painting Crucifixion (Corpus Hypercubus). At some point, Dalí had a glass floor installed in a room near his studio. He made extensive use of it to study foreshortening, both from above and from below, incorporating dramatic perspectives of figures and objects into his paintings. He also delighted in using the room for entertaining guests and visitors to his house and studio. Dalí’s post–World War II period bore the hallmarks of technical virtuosity and an intensifying interest in optical effects, science, and religion. He became an increasingly devout Catholic, while at the same time he had been inspired by the shock of Hiroshima and the dawning of the „atomic age”. Therefore, Dalí labeled this period „Nuclear Mysticism”. In paintings such as The Madonna of Port Lligat (first version, 1949) and Corpus Hypercubus (1954), Dalí sought to synthesize Christian iconography with images of material disintegration inspired by nuclear physics. His Nuclear Mysticism works included such notable pieces as La Gare de Perpignan (1965) and The Hallucinogenic Toreador (1968–70). In 1960, Dalí began work on his Theatre and Museum in his home town of Figueres; it was his largest single project and a main focus of his energy through 1974, when it opened. He continued to make additions through the mid-1980s. Dalí continued to indulge in publicity stunts and self-consciously outrageous behavior. To promote his 1962 book The World of Salvador Dalí, he appeared in a Manhattan bookstore on a bed, wired up to a machine that traced his brain waves and blood pressure. He would autograph books while thus monitored, and the book buyer would also be given the paper chart recording. In 1968, Dalí filmed a humorous television advertisement for Lanvin (fr) chocolates. In this, he proclaims in French „Je suis fou du chocolat Lanvin!” („I’m crazy about Lanvin chocolate!”) while biting a morsel, causing him to become cross-eyed and his moustache to swivel upwards. In 1969, he designed the Chupa Chups logo, in addition to facilitating the design of the advertising campaign for the 1969 Eurovision Song Contest and creating a large on-stage metal sculpture that stood at the Teatro Real in Madrid. In the television programme Dirty Dalí: A Private View broadcast on Channel 4 on June 3, 2007, art critic Brian Sewell described his acquaintance with Dalí in the late 1960s, which included lying down in the fetal position without trousers in the armpit of a figure of Christ and masturbating for Dalí, who pretended to take photos while fumbling in his own trousers. Final years and death In 1968, Dalí had bought a castle in Púbol for Gala; and starting in 1971 she would retreat there alone for weeks at a time. By Dalí’s own admission, he had agreed not to go there without written permission from his wife. His fears of abandonment and estrangement from his longtime artistic muse contributed to depression and failing health. In 1980 at age 76, Dalí’s health took a catastrophic turn. His right hand trembled terribly, with Parkinson-like symptoms. His near-senile wife allegedly had been dosing him with a dangerous cocktail of unprescribed medicine that damaged his nervous system, thus causing an untimely end to his artistic capacity. In 1982, King Juan Carlos bestowed on Dalí the title of Marqués de Dalí de Púbol (Marquis of Dalí de Púbol) in the nobility of Spain, hereby referring to Púbol, the place where he lived. The title was in first instance hereditary, but on request of Dalí changed to life only in 1983. Gala died on 10 June 1982, at the age of 87. After Gala’s death, Dalí lost much of his will to live. He deliberately dehydrated himself, possibly as a suicide attempt, with claims stating he had tried to put himself into a state of suspended animation as he had read that some microorganisms could do. He moved from Figueres to the castle in Púbol, which was the site of her death and her grave. In May 1983, Dalí revealed what would be his last painting, The Swallow’s Tail, a work heavily influenced by the mathematical catastrophe theory of René Thom. In 1984, a fire broke out in his bedroom under unclear circumstances. It was possibly a suicide attempt by Dalí, or possibly simple negligence by his staff. Dalí was rescued by friend and collaborator Robert Descharnes and returned to Figueres, where a group of his friends, patrons, and fellow artists saw to it that he was comfortable living in his Theater-Museum in his final years. There have been allegations that Dalí was forced by his guardians to sign blank canvases that would later, even after his death, be used in forgeries and sold as originals. It is also alleged that he knowingly sold otherwise-blank signed lithograph paper, possibly producing over 50,000 such sheets from 1965 until his death. As a result, art dealers tend to be wary of late works attributed to Dalí. In November 1988, Dalí entered the hospital with heart failure; a pacemaker had been implanted previously. On December 5, 1988, he was visited by King Juan Carlos, who confessed that he had always been a serious devotee of Dalí. Dalí gave the king a drawing (Head of Europa, which would turn out to be Dalí’s final drawing) after the king visited him on his deathbed. On the morning of 23 January 1989, while his favorite record of Tristan and Isolde played, Dalí died of heart failure at Figueres at the age of 84. He is buried in the crypt below the stage of his Theatre and Museum in Figueres. The location is across the street from the church of Sant Pere, where he had his baptism, first communion, and funeral, and is only three blocks from the house where he was born. The Gala-Salvador Dalí Foundation currently serves as his official estate. The US copyright representative for the Gala-Salvador Dalí Foundation is the Artists Rights Society. In 2002, the Society made news when it asked Google to remove a customized version of its logo put up to commemorate Dalí, alleging that portions of specific artworks under its protection had been used without permission. Google complied with the request, but denied that there was any copyright violation. Dalí employed extensive symbolism in his work. For instance, the hallmark „melting watches” that first appear in The Persistence of Memory suggest Einstein’s theory that time is relative and not fixed. The idea for clocks functioning symbolically in this way came to Dalí when he was staring at a runny piece of Camembert cheese on a hot August day. The elephant is also a recurring image in Dalí’s works. It appeared in his 1944 work Dream Caused by the Flight of a Bee Around a Pomegranate a Second Before Awakening. The elephants, inspired by Gian Lorenzo Bernini’s sculpture base in Rome of an elephant carrying an ancient obelisk, are portrayed „with long, multijointed, almost invisible legs of desire” along with obelisks on their backs. Coupled with the image of their brittle legs, these encumbrances, noted for their phallic overtones, create a sense of phantom reality. „The elephant is a distortion in space”, one analysis explains, „its spindly legs contrasting the idea of weightlessness with structure.” „I am painting pictures which make me die for joy, I am creating with an absolute naturalness, without the slightest aesthetic concern, I am making things that inspire me with a profound emotion and I am trying to paint them honestly.” —Salvador Dalí, in Dawn Ades, Dalí and Surrealism. The egg is another common Dalíesque image. He connects the egg to the prenatal and intrauterine, thus using it to symbolize hope and love; it appears in The Great Masturbator and The Metamorphosis of Narcissus. The Metamorphosis of Narcissus also symbolized death and petrification. Various other animals appear throughout his work as well: ants point to death, decay, and immense sexual desire; the snail is connected to the human head (he saw a snail on a bicycle outside Freud’s house when he first met Sigmund Freud); and locusts are a symbol of waste and fear. Both Dalí and his father enjoyed eating sea urchins, freshly caught in the sea near Cadaqués. The symmetry of the sea urchin fascinated Dalí and adapted its form to many art works and other foods also appear throughout his work. References to Dalí in the context of science are made in terms of his fascination with the paradigm shift that accompanied the birth of quantum mechanics in the twentieth century. Inspired by Werner Heisenberg’s uncertainty principle, in 1958 he wrote in his „Anti-Matter Manifesto”: „In the Surrealist period, I wanted to create the iconography of the interior world and the world of the marvelous, of my father Freud. Today, the exterior world and that of physics has transcended the one of psychology. My father today is Dr. Heisenberg.” In this respect, The Disintegration of the Persistence of Memory, which appeared in 1954, in harking back to The Persistence of Memory and in portraying that painting in fragmentation and disintegration, summarizes Dalí’s acknowledgment of the new science. Endeavors outside painting Dalí was a versatile artist. Some of his more popular works are sculptures and other objects, and he is also noted for his contributions to theatre, fashion, and photography, among other areas. Sculptures and other objects Homage to Newton (1985). Signed and numbered cast no. 5/8. Bronze with dark patina. Size: 388 x 210 x 133cm. UOB Plaza, Singapore. Dalí’s homage to Isaac Newton, with an open torso and suspended heart to indicate „open-heartedness,” and an open head indicating „open-mindedness”—two very important qualities for scientific discovery and successful human endeavors Two of the most popular objects of the surrealist movement were Lobster Telephone and Mae West Lips Sofa, completed by Dalí in 1936 and 1937, respectively. Surrealist artist and patron Edward James commissioned both of these pieces from Dalí; James inherited a large English estate in West Dean, West Sussex when he was five and was one of the foremost supporters of the surrealists in the 1930s. „Lobsters and telephones had strong sexual connotations for [Dalí]”, according to the display caption for the Lobster Telephone at the Tate Gallery, „and he drew a close analogy between food and sex.” The telephone was functional, and James purchased four of them from Dalí to replace the phones in his retreat home. One now appears at the Tate Gallery; the second can be found at the German Telephone Museum in Frankfurt; the third belongs to the Edward James Foundation; and the fourth is at the National Gallery of Australia. The wood and satin Mae West Lips Sofa was shaped after the lips of actress Mae West, whom Dalí apparently found fascinating. West was previously the subject of Dalí’s 1935 painting The Face of Mae West. The Mae West Lips Sofa currently resides at the Brighton and Hove Museum in England. Between 1941 and 1970, Dalí created an ensemble of 39 pieces of jewelry; many pieces are intricate, and some contain moving parts. The most famous assemblage, The Royal Heart, is made of gold and is encrusted with 46 rubies, 42 diamonds, and four emeralds, created in such a way that the center „beats” much like a real heart. Dalí himself commented that „Without an audience, without the presence of spectators, these jewels would not fulfill the function for which they came into being. The viewer, then, is the ultimate artist.” The „Dalí – Joies” („The Jewels of Dalí”) collection can be seen at the Dalí Theater Museum in Figueres, Catalonia, Spain, where it is on permanent exhibition. Dalí took a stab at industrial design in the 1970s with a 500-piece run of the upscale „Suomi” tableware by Timo Sarpaneva that Dalí decorated for the German Rosenthal porcelain maker’s „Studio Linie”. Theatre and film In theatre, Dalí constructed the scenery for Federico García Lorca’s 1927 romantic play Mariana Pineda.[86] For Bacchanale (1939), a ballet based on and set to the music of Richard Wagner’s 1845 opera Tannhäuser, Dalí provided both the set design and the libretto. Bacchanale was followed by set designs for Labyrinth in 1941 and The Three-Cornered Hat in 1949. Dalí became intensely interested in film when he was young, going to the theatre most Sundays. He was part of the era where silent films were being viewed and drawing on the medium of film became popular. He believed there were two dimensions to the theories of film and cinema: „things themselves”, the facts that are presented in the world of the camera; and „photographic imagination”, the way the camera shows the picture and how creative or imaginative it looks. Dalí was active in front of and behind the scenes in the film world. He is credited as co-creator of Luis Buñuel’s surrealist film Un Chien Andalou, a 17-minute French art film co-written with Luis Buñuel that is widely remembered for its graphic opening scene simulating the slashing of a human eyeball with a razor. This film is what Dalí is known for in the independent film world. Un Chien Andalou was Dalí’s way of creating his dreamlike qualities in the real world. Images would change and scenes would switch, leading the viewer in a completely different direction from the one they were previously viewing. The second film he produced with Buñuel was entitled L’Age d’Or, and it was performed at Studio 28 in Paris in 1930. L’Age d’Or was „banned for years after fascist and anti-Semitic groups staged a stink bomb and ink-throwing riot in the Paris theater where it was shown”. Although negative aspects of society were being thrown into the life of Dalí which affected the commercial success of his artwork, it did not hold him back from expressing his own ideas and beliefs in his art. Both of these films, Un Chien Andalou and L’Age d’Or, have had a tremendous impact on the independent surrealist film movement. „If Un Chien Andalou stands as the supreme record of Surrealism’s adventures into the realm of the unconscious, then L’Âge d’Or is perhaps the most trenchant and implacable expression of its revolutionary intent”. Dalí worked with other famous filmmakers, such as Alfred Hitchcock. The most well-known of his film projects is probably the dream sequence in Hitchcock’s Spellbound, which heavily delves into themes of psychoanalysis. Hitchcock needed a dreamlike quality to his film, which dealt with the idea that a repressed experience can directly trigger a neurosis, and he knew that Dalí’s work would help create the atmosphere he wanted in his film. He also worked on a documentary called Chaos and Creation, which has a lot of artistic references thrown into it to help one see what Dalí’s vision of art really is. Dalí also worked with Walt Disney on the short film production Destino. Completed in 2003 by Baker Bloodworth and Walt’s nephew Roy E. Disney, it contains dreamlike images of strange figures flying and walking about. It is based on Mexican songwriter Armando Dominguez’ song „Destino”. When Disney hired Dalí to help produce the film in 1946, they were not prepared for the quantity of work that lay ahead. For eight months, they worked on it continuously, until their efforts had to stop when they realized they were in financial trouble. However, it was eventually finished 48 years later, and shown in various film festivals. The film consists of Dalí’s artwork interacting with Disney’s character animation. Dalí completed only one other film in his lifetime, Impressions of Upper Mongolia (1975), in which he narrated a story about an expedition in search of giant hallucinogenic mushrooms. The imagery was based on microscopic uric acid stains on the brass band of a ballpoint pen on which Dalí had been urinating for several weeks. In the mid-1970s, film director Alejandro Jodorowsky cast Dali in the role of the Padishah Emperor in a production of Dune, based on the novel by Frank Herbert. According to the 2013 documentary on the film, Jodorowsky’s Dune, Jodorowsky met Dali in the King Cole Bar in the St. Regis hotel in Manhattan to discuss the role. Dali expressed interest in the film but required as a condition of appearing that he be made the highest paid actor in Hollywood. Jodorowsky accordingly cast Dali as the emperor, but he planned to cut Dali’s screen time to mere minutes, promising he be the highest-paid actor on a per minute basis. The film was ultimately never made. In the year 1927, Dali began to write the libretto for an opera, which he called Être Dieu (To Be God). He wrote this together with Federico Garcia Lorca one afternoon in the Café Regina Victoria in Madrid. In 1974, for a recording in Paris, the opera was adapted by the Spanish writer Manuel Vazquez Montalban, who wrote the libretto, while the music was created by Igor Wakhevitch. During the recording, however, Dali refused to follow the text written by Montalban, and instead, began to improvise in the belief that “Salvador Dali never repeats himself.” Fashion and photography Dalí built a repertoire in the fashion and photography businesses as well. His cooperation with Italian fashion designer Elsa Schiaparelli was well-known, when Dalí was commissioned to produce a white dress with a lobster print. Other designs Dalí made for her include a shoe-shaped hat, and a pink belt with lips for a buckle. He was also involved in creating textile designs and perfume bottles. In 1950, Dalí created a special „costume for the year 2045” with Christian Dior. Photographers with whom he collaborated include Man Ray, Brassaï, Cecil Beaton, and Philippe Halsman. With Man Ray and Brassaï, Dalí photographed nature; with the others, he explored a range of obscure topics, including (with Halsman) the Dalí Atomica series (1948) — inspired by his painting Leda Atomica — which in one photograph depicts „a painter’s easel, three cats, a bucket of water, and Dalí himself floating in the air.” One of Dalí’s most unorthodox artistic creations may have been an entire persona, in addition to his own. At a French nightclub in 1965, Dalí met Amanda Lear, a fashion model then known as Peki D’Oslo. Lear became his protégée and muse, later writing about their affair in her authorized biography My Life With Dalí (1986). Transfixed by the mannish, larger-than-life Lear, Dalí masterminded her successful transition from modeling to the music world, advising her on self-presentation and helping spin mysterious stories about her origin as she took the disco-art scene by storm. According to Lear, she and Dalí were united in a „spiritual marriage” on a deserted mountaintop. She was referred to as Dalí’s „Frankenstein,” and some observers believed Lear’s assumed name was a pun on the French phrase „L’Amant Dalí”, or „Lover of Dalí”. Lear took the place of an earlier muse, Ultra Violet (Isabelle Collin Dufresne), who had left Dalí’s side to join The Factory of Andy Warhol. Both former apprentices would go on to successfully promote their own careers in the arts. On April 10, 2005, they joined a panel discussion „Reminiscences of Dalí: A Conversation with Friends of the Artist” as part of a symposium „The Dalí Renaissance” for a major retrospective Dalí show at the Philadelphia Museum of Art. Their conversation is recorded in the 236-page exhibition catalog The Dalí Renaissance: New Perspectives on His Life and Art after 1940. Architecture Architectural achievements include his Port Lligat house near Cadaqués, as well as his Theatre and Museum in Figueres. A major work outside of Spain was the temporary Dream of Venus surrealist pavilion at the 1939 New York World’s Fair, which contained within it a number of unusual sculptures and statues, including live performers posing as statues. Literary works Under the encouragement of poet Federico García Lorca, Dalí attempted an approach to a literary career through the means of the „pure novel”. In his only novel Hidden Faces (1944), Dalí describes, in vividly visual terms, the intrigues and love affairs of a group of dazzling, eccentric aristocrats who, with their luxurious and extravagant lifestyle, symbolize the decadence of the 1930s. The Comte de Grandsailles and Solange de Cléda pursue an awkward love affair, but property transactions, interwar political turmoil, the French Resistance, his marriage to another woman and her responsibilities as a landowner and businesswoman drive them apart. It is variously set in Paris, rural France, Casablanca in North Africa and Palm Springs in the United States. Secondary characters include ageing widow Barbara Rogers, her bisexual daughter Veronica, Veronica’s sometime female lover Betka, and Baba, a disfigured US fighter pilot. The novel concludes at the end of the Second World War, with Solange dying before Grandsailles can return to his former property and reunite with her. The novel was written in New York and translated by Hakon Chevalier. His other, nonfictional literary works include The Secret Life of Salvador Dalí (1942), Diary of a Genius (1952–63), and Oui: The Paranoid-Critical Revolution (1927–33). Graphic arts The artist worked extensively in the graphic arts, producing many etchings and lithographs. While his early work in printmaking is equal in quality to his important paintings, as he grew older he would sell the rights to images but not be involved in the print production itself. In addition, a large number of fakes were produced in the 1980s and 1990s, thus further confusing the Dalí print market. After his arrival in the United States, Dalí engaged in heavy self-promotion. Later, Dali Museum executive director Hank Hine appreciated his „ingenious self-promotion” during the 2016 VR exhibition Disney and Dalí: Architects of the Imagination. While many of his stunts were seen as antics by art critics at the time, they were later interpreted as performances. His status as an extravagant artist was put to use in several publicity campaigns for Lanvin chocolates, „If you got it, flaunt it!” for Braniff International Airlines (1968), and Iberia Airlines. Politics and personality Salvador Dalí’s politics played a significant role in his emergence as an artist. In his youth, he embraced both anarchism and communism, though his writings tell anecdotes of making radical political statements more to shock listeners than from any deep conviction. This was in keeping with Dalí’s allegiance to the Dada movement. As he grew older his political allegiances changed, especially as the Surrealist movement went through transformations under the leadership of the Trotskyist writer André Breton, who is said to have called Dalí in for questioning on his politics. In his 1970 book Dalí by Dalí, Dalí declared himself to be both an anarchist and monarchist. With the outbreak of the Spanish Civil War (1936–1939), Dalí fled from the fighting and refused to align himself with any group. He did the same during World War II (1939–1945), for which he was heavily criticized; George Orwell accused him of „scuttling off like a rat as soon as France is in danger” after Dalí had prospered in France during the pre-war years. „When the European War approaches he has one preoccupation only: how to find a place which has good cookery and from which he can make a quick bolt if danger comes too near”, Orwell observed. In a notable 1944 review of Dalí’s autobiography, Orwell wrote, „One ought to be able to hold in one’s head simultaneously the two facts that Dalí is a good draughtsman and a disgusting human being”. After his return to Catalonia post World War II, Dalí moved closer to the authoritarian regime of Francisco Franco. Some of Dalí’s statements were supportive, congratulating Franco for his actions aimed „at clearing Spain of destructive forces”.Dalí, having returned to the Catholic faith and becoming increasingly religious as time went on, may have been referring to the Republican atrocities during the Spanish Civil War. Dalí sent telegrams to Franco, praising him for signing death warrants for prisoners. He even met Franco personally, and painted a portrait of Franco’s granddaughter. He also once sent a telegram praising the Conducător, Romanian Communist leader Nicolae Ceauşescu, for his adoption of a scepter as part of his regalia. The Romanian daily newspaper Scînteia published it, without suspecting its mocking aspect. One of Dalí’s few possible bits of open disobedience was his continued praise of Federico García Lorca even in the years when Lorca’s works were banned. Dalí, a colorful and imposing presence with his ever–present long cape, walking stick, haughty expression, and upturned waxed moustache, was famous for having said that „every morning upon awakening, I experience a supreme pleasure: that of being Salvador Dalí”.The entertainer Cher and her husband Sonny Bono, when young, came to a party at Dalí’s expensive residence in New York’s Plaza Hotel and were startled when Cher sat down on an oddly shaped sexual vibrator left in an easy chair. In the 1960s, he gave the actress Mia Farrow a dead mouse in a bottle, hand-painted, which her mother, actress Maureen O’Sullivan, demanded be removed from her house. Dali’s religious views were a matter of interest. In interviews Dali revealed his mysticism. In his later years, while still remaining a Roman Catholic, Dalí also claimed to be an agnostic. When signing autographs for fans, Dalí would always keep their pens. Salvador Dalí frequently traveled with his pet ocelot Babou, even bringing it aboard the luxury ocean liner SS France. He was also known to avoid paying tabs at restaurants by drawing on the checks he wrote. His theory was the restaurant would never want to cash such a valuable piece of art, and he was usually correct. Besides visual puns, Dalí shared in the surrealist delight in verbal puns, obscure allusions, and word games. He often spoke in a bizarre combination of French, Spanish, Catalan, and English which was sometimes amusing as well as arcane. His copious writings freely mixed words from different languages with terms entirely of his own devising. When interviewed by Mike Wallace on his 60 Minutes television show, Dalí kept referring to himself in the third person, as the „Divino Dalí” (Divine Dalí), and told the startled Wallace matter-of-factly that he did not believe in his death. On January 27, 1957, he was the mystery guest on the US panel show What’s My Line? and signed the chalkboard with thick white paint. His answers were misleading and prompted guidance from host Daly. Dali appeared in public a number of occasions with an anteater, notably on a lead in Paris in 1969 and on the The Dick Cavett Show on March 6, 1970 when he carried a small anteater on-stage. It has been claimed that he surprised fellow guest Lillian Gish by flinging the anteater onto her lap. Salvador Dalí has been cited as a major inspiration by many modern artists, such as Damien Hirst, Jeff Koons and most other modern surrealists. Salvador Dalí’s manic expression and famous moustache have made him something of a cultural icon for the bizarre and surreal. He has been portrayed on film by Robert Pattinson in Little Ashes (2008), and by Adrien Brody in Midnight in Paris (2011). He was also parodied in a series of painting skits on Captain Kangaroo as „Salvador Silly” (played by Cosmo Allegretti) and in a Sesame Street muppet skit as „Salvador Dada” (an orange gold Anything Muppet performed by Jim Henson). The Dali crater on the planet Mercury is named for him. Listing of selected works Dalí produced over 1,500 paintings in his career in addition to producing illustrations for books, lithographs, designs for theatre sets and costumes, a great number of drawings, dozens of sculptures, and various other projects, including an animated short film for Disney. He also collaborated with director Jack Bond in 1965, creating a movie titled Dalí in New York. Below is a chronological sample of important and representative work, as well as some notes on what Dalí did in particular years. In Carlos Lozano’s biography, Sex, Surrealism, Dalí, and Me, produced with the collaboration of Clifford Thurlow, Lozano makes it clear that Dalí never stopped being a surrealist. As Dalí said of himself: „the only difference between me and the surrealists is that I am a surrealist.” 1910 Landscape Near Figueras 1913 Vilabertin 1916 Fiesta in Figueras (begun 1914) 1917 View of Cadaqués with Shadow of Mount Pani 1918 Crepuscular Old Man (begun 1917) 1919 Port of Cadaqués (Night) (begun 1918) and Self-portrait in the Studio 1920 The Artist’s Father at Llane Beach and View of Portdogué (Port Aluger) 1921 The Garden of Llaner (Cadaqués) (begun 1920) and Self-portrait 1922 Cabaret Scene and Night Walking Dreams 1923 Self Portrait with L’Humanite and Cubist Self Portrait with La Publicitat 1924 Still Life (Syphon and Bottle of Rum) (for García Lorca) and Portrait of Luis Buñuel 1925 Large Harlequin and Small Bottle of Rum and a series of fine portraits of his sister Anna Maria, most notably Figure at a Window 1926 The Basket of Bread, Girl from Figueres and Girl with Curls 1927 Composition with Three Figures (Neo-Cubist Academy) and Honey is Sweeter than Blood (his first important surrealist work) 1929 Un Chien Andalou (An Andalusian Dog) film in collaboration with Luis Buñuel, The Lugubrious Game, The Great Masturbator, The First Days of Spring, and The Profanation of the Host 1930 L’Age d’Or (The Golden Age) film in collaboration with Luis Buñuel 1931 The Persistence of Memory (his most famous work, featuring the „melting clocks”), The Old Age of William Tell, and William Tell and Gradiva 1932 The Spectre of Sex Appeal, The Birth of Liquid Desires, Anthropomorphic Bread, and Fried Eggs on the Plate without the Plate. The Invisible Man (begun 1929) completed (although not to Dalí’s own satisfaction) 1933 Retrospective Bust of a Woman (mixed media sculpture collage) and Portrait of Gala With Two Lamb Chops Balanced on Her Shoulder, Gala in the Window 1934 The Ghost of Vermeer of Delft Which Can Be Used As a Table and A Sense of Speed 1935 Archaeological Reminiscence of Millet’s Angelus and The Face of Mae West 1936 Autumn Cannibalism, Lobster Telephone, Soft Construction with Boiled Beans (Premonition of Civil War) and two works titled Morphological Echo (the first of which began in 1934) 1937 Metamorphosis of Narcissus, Swans Reflecting Elephants, The Burning Giraffe, Sleep, The Enigma of Hitler, Mae West Lips Sofa and Cannibalism in Autumn 1938 The Sublime Moment and Apparition of Face and Fruit Dish on a Beach 1939 Shirley Temple, The Youngest, Most Sacred Monster of the Cinema in Her Time 1940 Slave Market with the Disappearing Bust of Voltaire, The Face of War 1941 Honey is Sweeter than Blood 1943 The Poetry of America and Geopoliticus Child Watching the Birth of the New Man 1944 Galarina and Dream Caused by the Flight of a Bee Around a Pomegranate a Second Before Awakening 1944–48 Hidden Faces, a novel 1945, Basket of Bread—Rather Death than Shame and Fountain of Milk Flowing Uselessly on Three Shoes; also this year, Dalí collaborated with Alfred Hitchcock on a dream sequence to the film Spellbound, to mutual dissatisfaction 1946 The Temptation of St. Anthony by Salvador Dali 1948 The Elephants 1949 Leda Atomica and The Madonna of Port Lligat. Dalí returned to Catalonia this year 1951 Christ of Saint John of the Cross and Exploding Raphaelesque Head 1951 Katharine Cornell, a portrait of the famed actress 1952 Galatea of the Spheres 1954 The Disintegration of the Persistence of Memory (begun in 1952), Crucifixion (Corpus Hypercubus) and Young Virgin Auto-Sodomized by the Horns of Her Own Chastity 1955 The Sacrament of the Last Supper, Lonesome Echo, record album cover for Jackie Gleason 1956 Still Life Moving Fast, Rinoceronte vestido con puntillas 1957 Santiago el Grande oil on canvas on permanent display at Beaverbrook Art Gallery in Fredericton, NB, Canada 1958 The Meditative Rose 1959 The Discovery of America by Christopher Columbus 1960 Composición Numérica (de fond préparatoire inachevé), Acrylic and oil on canvas 1960 Dalí began work on the Teatro-Museo Gala Salvador Dalí and Portrait of Juan de Pareja, the Assistant to Velázquez 1961 Dali created one of his most interesting works –”El Triomf I el Rodoli de la Gala I en Dali” 1963–1964 They Will All Come from Saba a work in water color depicting the Magi at St. Petersburg’s Dalí Museum 1965 Dalí donates a gouache, ink and pencil drawing of the Crucifixion to the Rikers Island jail in New York City. The drawing hung in the inmate dining room from 1965 to 1981 1965 Dalí in New York 1967 Tuna Fishing 1969 Chupa Chups logo 1969 Improvisation on a Sunday Afternoon, television collaboration with the British progressive rock group Nirvana[citation needed] 1970 The Hallucinogenic Toreador, acquired in 1969 by A. Reynolds Morse & Eleanor R. Morse before it was completed[citation needed] 1972 Gala, Elena Ivanovna Diakonova – dit., GALA Bronze sculpture, piece unique 1973 „Les Diners de Gala”, an ornately illustrated cook book 1976 Gala Contemplating the Mediterranean Sea 1977 Dalí’s Hand Drawing Back the Golden Fleece in the Form of a Cloud to Show Gala Completely Nude, Very Far Away Behind the Sun (stereoscopical pair of paintings) 1981 „Femme à la tête de rose” In 1935 Dali painted the Woman with the head of roses homage to the verse of René Crevel appeared in the surrealist magazine „Le Minotaure”: <<„But it appears and it is spring. A ball of flowers will serve as his head. His brain is both the hive and the bouquet…>>. Decades later, he made it an elevated sculpture and Supported by crutches.This beautiful phytomorphic creature expresses both grace and rigidity, femininity and animality. 1983 A job that he made for decades since 1941 is published; 78 paintings that the mystical man, who liked the esoteric, painted with the help of his wife, to create a tarot deck, Dali Universal Tarot Deck is a work of art that few know . 2003 Destino, an animated short film originally a collaboration between Dalí and Walt Disney, is released. Production on Destino began in 1945 The largest collections of Dalí’s work are at the Dalí Theatre and Museum in Figueres, Catalonia, Spain, followed by the Salvador Dalí Museum in St. Petersburg, Florida, which contains the collection of A. Reynolds Morse & Eleanor R. Morse. It holds over 1,500 works from Dalí. Other particularly significant collections include the Reina Sofia Museum in Madrid and the Salvador Dalí Gallery in San Juan Capistrano, California. Espace Dalí in Montmartre, Paris, France, as well as the Dalí Universe in London, England, contain a large collection of his drawings and sculptures. The unlikeliest venue for Dalí’s work was the Rikers Island jail in New York City. A sketch of the Crucifixion that he donated to the jail in 1965, hung in the inmate dining room for 16 years before it was moved to the prison lobby for safekeeping. Ironically, the drawing was stolen from that location in March 2003 and has not been recovered. Dalí museums and permanent exhibitions Dalí Theatre and Museum – Figueres, Catalonia, Spain Salvador Dalí House-Museum – Port Lligat, Catalonia, Spain Gala Dalí House-Museum – Púbol, Catalonia, Spain Salvador Dali Museum – St Petersburg, Florida, US Dalí Universe – Venice, Italy Espace Dalí – Paris, France Dalí, permanent exhibition – Berlin, Germany Museum-Gallery Xpo: Salvador Dali, permanent exhibition – Bruges, Belgium Art Bank, private exhibition – Pargas, Finland Dali17, permanent exhibition – Monterey, California, US Major temporary exhibitions The Dalí Renaissance: New Perspectives on His Life and Art after 1940 (2005) Philadelphia Museum of Art FOTO: Salvador Dalí Written by: Constantin Enache Biography Vincent Willem van Gogh (30 March 1853 – 29 July 1890) was a Dutch Post-Impressionist painter who is among the most famous and influential figures in the history of Western art. In just over a decade he created about 2,100 artworks, including around 860 oil paintings, most of them in the last two years of his life in France, where he died. They include landscapes, still lifes, portraits and self-portraits, and are characterised by bold colours and dramatic, impulsive and expressive brushwork that contributed to the foundations of modern art. His suicide at 37 followed years of mental illness and poverty. Born into an upper-middle-class family, Van Gogh drew as a child and was serious, quiet and thoughtful. As a young man he worked as an art dealer, often travelling, but became depressed after he was transferred to London. He turned to religion, and spent time as a Protestant missionary in southern Belgium. He drifted in ill health and solitude before taking up painting in 1881, having moved back home with his parents. His younger brother Theo supported him financially, and the two kept up a long correspondence by letter. His early works, mostly still lifes and depictions of peasant labourers, contain few signs of the vivid colour that distinguished his later work. In 1886 he moved to Paris, where he met members of the avant-garde, including Émile Bernard and Paul Gauguin, who were reacting against the Impressionist sensibility. As his work developed he created a new approach to still lifes and local landscapes. His paintings grew brighter in colour as he developed a style that became fully realised during his stay in Arles in the south of France in 1888. During this period he broadened his subject matter to include olive trees, cypresses, wheat fields and sunflowers. Van Gogh suffered from psychotic episodes and delusions and though he worried about his mental stability, he often neglected his physical health, did not eat properly and drank heavily. His friendship with Gauguin ended after a confrontation with a razor, when in a rage, he severed part of his own left ear. He spent time in psychiatric hospitals, including a period at Saint-Rémy. After he discharged himself and moved to the Auberge Ravoux in Auvers-sur-Oise near Paris, he came under the care of the homeopathic doctor Paul Gachet. His depression continued and on 27 July 1890, Van Gogh shot himself in the chest with a revolver. He died from his injuries two days later. Van Gogh was unsuccessful during his lifetime, and was considered a madman and a failure. He became famous after his suicide, and exists in the public imagination as the quintessential misunderstood genius, the artist „where discourses on madness and creativity converge”. His reputation began to grow in the early 20th century as elements of his painting style came to be incorporated by the Fauves and German Expressionists. He attained widespread critical, commercial and popular success over the ensuing decades, and is remembered as an important but tragic painter, whose troubled personality typifies the romantic ideal of the tortured artist. The most comprehensive primary source on Van Gogh is the correspondence between him and his younger brother, Theo. Their lifelong friendship, and most of what is known of Vincent’s thoughts and theories of art, are recorded in the hundreds of letters they exchanged from 1872 until 1890. Theo van Gogh was an art dealer and provided his brother with financial and emotional support, and access to influential people on the contemporary art scene. Theo kept all of Vincent’s letters to him; Vincent kept few of the letters he received. After both had died, Theo’s widow Johanna arranged for the publication of some of their letters. A few appeared in 1906 and 1913; the majority were published in 1914. Vincent’s letters are eloquent and expressive and have been described as having a „diary-like intimacy”,[9] and read in parts like autobiography. The translator Arnold Pomerans wrote that their publication adds a „fresh dimension to the understanding of Van Gogh’s artistic achievement, an understanding granted us by virtually no other painter”. There are more than 600 letters from Vincent to Theo and around 40 from Theo to Vincent. There are 22 to his sister Wil, 58 to the painter Anthon van Rappard, 22 to Émile Bernard as well as individual letters to Paul Signac, Paul Gauguin and the critic Albert Aurier. Some are illustrated with sketches. Many are undated, but art historians have been able to place most in chronological order. Problems in transcription and dating remain, mainly with those posted from Arles. While there Vincent wrote around 200 letters in Dutch, French and English. There is a gap in the record when he lived in Paris as the brothers lived together and had no need to correspond. Early years Vincent Willem van Gogh was born on 30 March 1853 in Groot-Zundert, in the predominantly Catholic province of North Brabant in the southern Netherlands. He was the oldest surviving child of Theodorus van Gogh, a minister of the Dutch Reformed Church, and Anna Cornelia Carbentus. Van Gogh was given the name of his grandfather, and of a brother stillborn exactly a year before his birth. Vincent was a common name in the Van Gogh family: his grandfather, Vincent (1789–1874), who received a degree in theology at the University of Leiden in 1811, had six sons, three of whom became art dealers. This Vincent may have been named after his own great-uncle, a sculptor (1729–1802). Van Gogh’s mother came from a prosperous family in The Hague, and his father was the youngest son of a minister. The two met when Anna’s younger sister, Cornelia, married Theodorus’s older brother Vincent (Cent). Van Gogh’s parents married in May 1851 and moved to Zundert. His brother Theo was born on 1 May 1857. There was another brother, Cor, and three sisters: Elisabeth, Anna, and Willemina (known as „Wil”). In later life Van Gogh remained in touch only with Willemina and Theo. Van Gogh’s mother was a rigid and religious woman who emphasised the importance of family to the point of claustrophobia for those around her. Theodorus’s salary was modest, but the Church supplied the family with a house, a maid, two cooks, a gardener, a carriage and horse, and Anna instilled in the children a duty to uphold the family’s high social position. Van Gogh was a serious and thoughtful child. He was taught at home by his mother and a governess, and in 1860 was sent to the village school. In 1864 he was placed in a boarding school at Zevenbergen, where he felt abandoned, and campaigned to come home. Instead, in 1866 his parents sent him to the middle school in Tilburg, where he was deeply unhappy. His interest in art began at a young age; encouraged to draw as a child by his mother, his early drawings are expressive, but do not approach the intensity of his later work. Constantijn C. Huysmans, who had been a successful artist in Paris, taught the students at Tilburg. His philosophy was to reject technique in favour of capturing the impressions of things, particularly nature or common objects. Van Gogh’s profound unhappiness seems to have overshadowed the lessons, which had little effect; in March 1868 he abruptly returned home. He later wrote that his youth was „austere and cold, and sterile”. In July 1869 Van Gogh’s uncle Cent obtained a position for him at the art dealers Goupil & Cie in The Hague. After completing his training in 1873, he was transferred to Goupil’s London branch at Southampton Street, and took lodgings at 87 Hackford Road, Stockwell. This was a happy time for Van Gogh; he was successful at work, and at 20 was earning more than his father. Theo’s wife later remarked that this was the best year of his life. He became infatuated with his landlady’s daughter, Eugénie Loyer, but was rejected after confessing his feelings; she was secretly engaged to a former lodger. He grew more isolated, and religiously fervent. His father and uncle arranged a transfer to Paris in 1875, where he became resentful of issues such as the degree to which the firm commodified art, and was dismissed a year later. In April 1876 he returned to England to take unpaid work as a supply teacher in a small boarding school in Ramsgate. When the proprietor moved to Isleworth in Middlesex, Van Gogh went with him. The arrangement did not work out and he left to become a Methodist minister’s assistant. His parents had meanwhile moved to Etten in 1876 he returned home at Christmas for six months and took work at a bookshop in Dordrecht. He was unhappy in the position and spent his time doodling or translating passages from the Bible into English, French and German. He immersed himself in religion, and became increasingly pious and monastic. According to his flatmate of the time, Paulus van Görlitz, Van Gogh ate frugally, avoiding meat. To support his religious conviction and his desire to become a pastor, in 1877 the family sent him to live with his uncle Johannes Stricker, a respected theologian, in Amsterdam. Van Gogh prepared for the University of Amsterdam theology entrance examination; he failed the exam, and left his uncle’s house in July 1878. He undertook, but also failed, a three-month course at a Protestant missionary school in Laken, near Brussels. In January 1879 he took up a post as a missionary at Petit-Wasmes in the coal-mining district of Borinage in Belgium. To show support for his impoverished congregation, he gave up his comfortable lodgings at a bakery to a homeless person, and moved to a small hut where he slept on straw.[46] His squalid living conditions did not endear him to church authorities, who dismissed him for „undermining the dignity of the priesthood”. He then walked the 75 kilometres (47 mi) to Brussels, returned briefly to Cuesmes in the Borinage, but gave in to pressure from his parents to return home to Etten. He stayed there until around March 1880,[note 3] which caused concern and frustration for his parents. His father was especially frustrated and advised that his son should be committed to the lunatic asylum at Geel. Van Gogh returned to Cuesmes in August 1880, where he lodged with a miner until October. He became interested in the people and scenes around him, and recorded them in drawings after Theo’s suggestion that he take up art in earnest. He travelled to Brussels later in the year, to follow Theo’s recommendation that he study with the Dutch artist Willem Roelofs, who persuaded him – in spite of his dislike of formal schools of art – to attend the Académie Royale des Beaux-Arts. He registered at the Académie in November 1880, where he studied anatomy and the standard rules of modelling and perspective. Van Gogh returned to Etten in April 1881 for an extended stay with his parents. He continued to draw, often using his neighbours as subjects. In August 1881, his recently widowed cousin, Cornelia „Kee” Vos-Stricker, daughter of his mother’s older sister Willemina and Johannes Stricker, arrived for a visit. He was thrilled and took long walks with her. Kee was seven years older than him, and had an eight-year-old son. Van Gogh surprised everyone by declaring his love to her and proposing marriage. She refused with the words „No, nay, never” („nooit, neen, nimmer”). After Kee returned to Amsterdam, Van Gogh went to The Hague to try and sell paintings and to meet with his second cousin, Anton Mauve. Mauve was the successful artist Van Gogh longed to be. Mauve invited him to return in a few months, and suggested he spend the intervening time working in charcoal and pastels; Van Gogh went back to Etten and followed this advice. Late in November 1881, Van Gogh wrote a letter to Johannes Stricker, which he described to Theo as an attack. Within days he left for Amsterdam. Kee would not meet him, and her parents wrote that his „persistence is disgusting”. In despair, he held his left hand in the flame of a lamp, with the words: „Let me see her for as long as I can keep my hand in the flame.” He did not recall the event well, but later assumed that his uncle had blown out the flame. Kee’s father made it clear that her refusal should be heeded and that the two would not marry, largely because of Van Gogh’s inability to support himself. Mauve took Van Gogh on as a student and introduced him to watercolour, which he worked on for the next month before returning home for Christmas. He quarreled with his father, refusing to attend church, and left for The Hague. Within a month Van Gogh and Mauve fell out, possibly over the viability of drawing from plaster casts. Van Gogh could only afford to hire people from the street as models, a practice of which Mauve seems to have disapproved. In June Van Gogh suffered a bout of gonorrhoea and spent three weeks in hospital. Soon after, he first painted in oils, bought with money borrowed from Theo. He liked the medium, and spread the paint liberally, scraping from the canvas and working back with the brush. He wrote that he was surprised at how good the results were. A view from a window of pale red rooftops. A bird flies in the blue sky; in the near distance there are fields and to the right, the town and other buildings can be seen. On the distant horizon are chimneys. By March 1882 Mauve appears to have gone cold towards Van Gogh, and stopped replying to his letters. He had learned of Van Gogh’s new domestic arrangement with an alcoholic prostitute, Clasina Maria „Sien” Hoornik (1850–1904), and her young daughter. Van Gogh had met Sien towards the end of January 1882, when she had a five-year-old daughter and was pregnant. She had previously borne two children who died, but Van Gogh was unaware of this; on 2 July, she gave birth to a baby boy, Willem. When Van Gogh’s father discovered the details of their relationship, he put pressure on his son to abandon Sien and her two children. Vincent at first defied him, and considered moving the family out of the city, but in late 1883 left Sien and the children. Poverty may have pushed Sien back into prostitution; the home became less happy and Van Gogh may have felt family life was irreconcilable with his artistic development. Sien gave her daughter to her mother, and baby Willem to her brother. Willem remembered visiting Rotterdam when he was about 12, when an uncle tried to persuade Sien to marry in order to legitimise the child. He believed Van Gogh was his father, but the timing of his birth makes this unlikely. Sien drowned herself in the River Scheldt in 1904. In September 1883 Van Gogh moved to Drenthe in the northern Netherlands. In December, driven by loneliness, he went to live with his parents, then in Nuenen, North Brabant. Emerging artist Nuenen and Antwerp (1883–86) In Nuenen, Van Gogh focused on painting and drawing. Working outside and very quickly, he completed sketches and paintings of weavers and their cottages. From August 1884, Margot Begemann, a neighbour’s daughter ten years his senior, joined him on his forays; she fell in love and he reciprocated, though less enthusiastically. They wanted to marry, but neither side of their families were in favour. Margot was distraught and took an overdose of strychnine, but survived after Van Gogh rushed her to a nearby hospital. On 26 March 1885, his father died of a heart attack. Van Gogh painted several groups of still lifes in 1885. During his two-year stay in Nuenen, he completed numerous drawings and watercolours, and nearly 200 oil paintings. His palette consisted mainly of sombre earth tones, particularly dark brown, and showed no sign of the vivid colours that distinguish his later work. There was interest from a dealer in Paris early in 1885. Theo asked Vincent if he had paintings ready to exhibit. In May, Van Gogh responded with his first major work, The Potato Eaters, and a series of „peasant character studies” which were the culmination of several years of work. When he complained that Theo was not making enough effort to sell his paintings in Paris, his brother responded that they were too dark, and not in keeping with the bright style of Impressionism. In August his work was publicly exhibited for the first time, in the shop windows of the dealer Leurs in The Hague. One of his young peasant sitters became pregnant in September 1885; Van Gogh was accused of forcing himself upon her, and the village priest forbade parishioners to model for him. He moved to Antwerp that November, and rented a room above a paint dealer’s shop in the rue des Images (Lange Beeldekensstraat). He lived in poverty and ate poorly, preferring to spend the money Theo sent on painting materials and models. Bread, coffee and tobacco became his staple diet. In February 1886 he wrote to Theo that he could only remember eating six hot meals since the previous May. His teeth became loose and painful. In Antwerp he applied himself to the study of colour theory and spent time in museums—particularly studying the work of Peter Paul Rubens – and broadened his palette to include carmine, cobalt blue and emerald green. Van Gogh bought Japanese ukiyo-e woodcuts in the docklands, later incorporating elements of their style into the background of some of his paintings. He was drinking heavily again, and was hospitalised between February and March 1886, when he was possibly also treated for syphilis. After his recovery, and despite his antipathy towards academic teaching, he took the higher-level admission exams at the Academy of Fine Arts in Antwerp, and in January 1886 matriculated in painting and drawing. He became ill and run down by overwork, poor diet and excessive smoking. He started to attend drawing classes after plaster models at the Antwerp Academy on 18 January 1886. He quickly got into trouble with Charles Verlat, the director of the Academy and teacher of a painting class, because of his unconventional painting style. Van Gogh had also clashed with the instructor of the drawing class Franz Vinck. Van Gogh finally started to attend the drawing classes after antique plaster models given by Eugène Siberdt. Soon Siberdt and van Gogh came into conflict when the latter did not comply with Siberdt’s requirement that drawings express the contour and concentrate on the line. When van Gogh was required to draw the Venus of Milo during a drawing class, he produced the limbless, naked torso of a Flemish peasant woman. Siberdt regarded this as defiance against his artistic guidance and made corrections to van Gogh’s drawing with his crayon so vigorously that he tore the paper. Van Gogh then flew into a violent rage and shouted at Siberdt: ‘You clearly do not know what a young woman is like, God damn it! A woman must have hips, buttocks, a pelvis in which she can carry a baby!’ According to some accounts this was the last time van Gogh attended classes at the Academy and he left later for Paris. On 31 March 1886, which was about a month after the confrontation with Siberdt, the teachers of the Academy decided that 17 students, including van Gogh, had to repeat a year. The story that van Gogh was expelled from the Academy by Siberdt is therefore unfounded. Paris (1886–88) Van Gogh moved to Paris in March 1886 where he shared Theo’s rue Laval apartment in Montmartre, and studied at Fernand Cormon’s studio. In June the brothers took a larger flat at 54 rue Lepic. In Paris, Vincent painted portraits of friends and acquaintances, still life paintings, views of Le Moulin de la Galette, scenes in Montmartre, Asnières and along the Seine. In 1885 in Antwerp he had become interested in Japanese ukiyo-e woodblock prints, and had used them to decorate the walls of his studio; while in Paris he collected hundreds of them. He tried his hand at Japonaiserie, tracing a figure from a reproduction on the cover of the magazine Paris Illustre, The Courtesan or Oiran (1887), after Keisai Eisen, which he then graphically enlarged in a painting. After seeing the portrait of Adolphe Monticelli at the Galerie Delareybarette, Van Gogh adopted a brighter palette and a bolder attack, particularly in paintings such as his Seascape at Saintes-Maries (1888). Two years later, Vincent and Theo paid for the publication of a book on Monticelli paintings, and Vincent bought some of Monticelli’s works to add to his collection. Van Gogh learned about Fernand Cormon’s atelier from Theo. He worked at the studio in April and May 1886, where he frequented the circle of the Australian artist John Peter Russell, and met fellow students Émile Bernard, Louis Anquetin and Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec – who painted a portrait of him in pastel. They met at Julien „Père” Tanguy’s paint shop, (which was, at that time, the only place where Paul Cézanne’s paintings were displayed). In 1886, two large exhibitions were staged there, showing Pointillism and Neo-Impressionism for the first time, and bringing attention to Georges Seurat and Paul Signac. Theo kept a stock of Impressionist paintings in his gallery on boulevard Montmartre, but Van Gogh was slow to acknowledge the new developments in art. Conflicts arose between the brothers. At the end of 1886 Theo found living with Vincent to be „almost unbearable”.By early 1887, they were again at peace, and Vincent had moved to Asnières, a northwestern suburb of Paris, where he got to know Signac. He adopted elements of Pointillism, a technique in which a multitude of small coloured dots are applied to the canvas so that when seen from a distance they create an optical blend of hues. The style stresses the ability of complementary colours – including blue and orange – to form vibrant contrasts. While in Asnières Van Gogh painted parks, restaurants and the Seine, including Bridges across the Seine at Asnières. In November 1887, Theo and Vincent befriended Paul Gauguin who had just arrived in Paris. Towards the end of the year, Vincent arranged an exhibition alongside Bernard, Anquetin, and probably Toulouse-Lautrec, at the Grand-Bouillon Restaurant du Chalet, 43 avenue de Clichy, Montmartre. In a contemporary account, Bernard wrote that the exhibition was ahead of anything else in Paris. There Bernard and Anquetin sold their first paintings, and Van Gogh exchanged work with Gauguin. Discussions on art, artists, and their social situations started during this exhibition, continued and expanded to include visitors to the show, like Camille Pissarro and his son Lucien, Signac and Seurat. In February 1888, feeling worn out from life in Paris, Van Gogh left, having painted more than 200 paintings during his two years there. Hours before his departure, accompanied by Theo, he paid his first and only visit to Seurat in his studio. Artistic breakthrough Arles (1888–89) Ill from drink and suffering from smoker’s cough, in February 1888 Van Gogh sought refuge in Arles. He seems to have moved with thoughts of founding an art colony. The Danish artist Christian Mourier-Petersen became his companion for two months, and at first Arles appeared exotic. In a letter, he described it as a foreign country: „The Zouaves, the brothels, the adorable little Arlésienne going to her First Communion, the priest in his surplice, who looks like a dangerous rhinoceros, the people drinking absinthe, all seem to me creatures from another world.” The time in Arles became one of Van Gogh’s more prolific periods: he completed 200 paintings, and more than 100 drawings and watercolours. He was enchanted by the local landscape and light; his works from this period are rich in yellow, ultramarine and mauve. His paintings include harvests, wheat fields and general rural landmarks from the area, including The Old Mill (1888), a picturesque structure bordering the wheat fields. This was one of seven canvases sent to Pont-Aven on 4 October 1888 in an exchange of works with Paul Gauguin, Émile Bernard, Charles Laval and others. The portrayals of the Arles landscape are informed by Van Gogh’s Dutch upbringing; the patchworks of fields and avenues appear flat and lacking perspective, but excel in their use of colour. His new-found appreciation is seen in the range and scope of his work. In March 1888 he painted landscapes using a gridded „perspective frame”; three of the works were shown at the annual exhibition of the Société des Artistes Indépendants. In April, he was visited by the American artist Dodge MacKnight, who was living nearby at Fontvieille. On 1 May 1888, for 15 francs per month, he signed a lease for the eastern wing of the Yellow House at 2 place Lamartine. The rooms were unfurnished and had been uninhabited for months. On 7 May Van Gogh moved from the Hôtel Carrel to the Café de la Gare, having befriended the proprietors, Joseph and Marie Ginoux. The Yellow House had to be furnished before he could fully move in, but he was able to use it as a studio. He wanted a gallery to display his work, and started a series of paintings that eventually included Van Gogh’s Chair (1888), Bedroom in Arles (1888), The Night Café (1888), Café Terrace at Night (September 1888), Starry Night Over the Rhone (1888), and Still Life: Vase with Twelve Sunflowers (1888), all intended for the decoration for the Yellow House. Van Gogh wrote that with The Night Café he tried „to express the idea that the café is a place where one can ruin oneself, go mad, or commit a crime”.When he visited Saintes-Maries-de-la-Mer in June, he gave lessons to a Zouave second lieutenant – Paul-Eugène Milliet– and painted boats on the sea and the village. MacKnight introduced Van Gogh to Eugène Boch, a Belgian painter who sometimes stayed in Fontvieille, and the two exchanged visits in July. Gauguin’s visit (1888) When Gauguin agreed to visit Arles in 1888, Van Gogh hoped for friendship, and the realisation of his idea of an artists’ collective. While waiting, in August he painted Sunflowers. When Boch visited again, Van Gogh painted a portrait of him, as well as the study The Poet Against a Starry Sky. In preparation for Gauguin’s visit, Van Gogh bought two beds on advice from the station’s postal supervisor Joseph Roulin, whose portrait he painted. On 17 September he spent his first night in the still sparsely furnished Yellow House. When Gauguin consented to work and live in Arles with him, Van Gogh started to work on the Décoration for the Yellow House, probably the most ambitious effort he ever undertook. He completed two chair paintings: Van Gogh’s Chair and Gauguin’s Chair. After much pleading from Van Gogh, Gauguin arrived in Arles on 23 October, and in November the two painted together. Gauguin depicted Van Gogh in his The Painter of Sunflowers; Van Gogh painted pictures from memory, following Gauguin’s suggestion. Among these „imaginative” paintings is Memory of the Garden at Etten. Their first joint outdoor venture was at the Alyscamps, when they produced the pendants Les Alyscamps. The single painting Gauguin completed during his visit was Van Gogh Painting Sunflowers. Van Gogh and Gauguin visited Montpellier in December 1888, where they saw works by Courbet and Delacroix in the Musée Fabre. Their relationship began to deteriorate; Van Gogh admired Gauguin and wanted to be treated as his equal, but Gauguin was arrogant and domineering, which frustrated Van Gogh. They often quarrelled; Van Gogh increasingly feared that Gauguin was going to desert him, and the situation, which Van Gogh described as one of „excessive tension”, rapidly headed towards crisis point. The exact sequence of events which led to Van Gogh’s mutilation of his ear is not known. Gauguin claimed, fifteen years later, that the night followed several instances of physically threatening behaviour. Their relationship was complex, and Theo may have owed money to Gauguin, who was suspicious that the brothers were exploiting him financially. It seems likely that Van Gogh had realised that Gauguin was planning to leave. The following days saw heavy rain, leading to the two men being shut in the Yellow House. Gauguin reported that Van Gogh followed when Gauguin left the house for a walk, and „rushed towards me, an open razor in his hand”.This account is uncorroborated; Gauguin was almost certainly absent from the Yellow House that night, most likely in a hotel. After the altercation with Gauguin, Van Gogh returned to his room, where he was assaulted by voices and severed his left ear with a razor (either wholly or in part; accounts differ),causing severe bleeding. He bandaged the wound, wrapped the ear in paper, and delivered the package to a woman at a brothel Van Gogh and Gauguin both frequented. Van Gogh was found unconscious the next morning by a policeman and taken to hospital, where Félix Rey, a young doctor still in training, treated him. The ear was delivered to the hospital, but Rey did not attempt to reattach it as too much time had passed. Van Gogh had no recollection of the event, suggesting that he may have suffered an acute mental breakdown. The hospital diagnosis was „acute mania with generalised delirium”, and within a few days the local police ordered that he be placed in hospital care. Gauguin immediately notified Theo, who on 24 December had proposed marriage to his old friend Andries Bonger’s sister Johanna. That evening Theo rushed to the station to board a night train to Arles. He arrived on Christmas Day, comforted Vincent who seemed to be semi-lucid. That evening he left Arles for the return trip to Paris. During the first days of his treatment, Van Gogh repeatedly and unsuccessfully asked for Gauguin, who asked a policeman attending the case to „be kind enough, Monsieur, to awaken this man with great care, and if he asks for me tell him I have left for Paris; the sight of me might prove fatal for him.” Gauguin fled Arles, never to see Van Gogh again. They continued to correspond and in 1890 Gauguin proposed they form a studio in Antwerp. Other visitors to the hospital included Marie Ginoux and Roulin. Despite a pessimistic diagnosis, Van Gogh recovered and returned to the Yellow House on 7 January 1889. He spent the following month between hospital and home, suffering from hallucinations and delusions of poisoning. In March, the police closed his house after a petition by 30 townspeople (including the Ginoux family) who described him as „le fou roux” (the redheaded madman); Van Gogh returned to hospital. Paul Signac visited him twice in March; in April Van Gogh moved into rooms owned by Dr Rey after floods damaged paintings in his own home. Two months later, he left Arles and voluntarily entered an asylum in Saint-Rémy-de-Provence. Around this time, he wrote, „Sometimes moods of indescribable anguish, sometimes moments when the veil of time and fatality of circumstances seemed to be torn apart for an instant.” Van Gogh entered the Saint-Paul-de-Mausole asylum on 8 May 1889, accompanied by his carer, Frédéric Salles, a Protestant clergyman. Saint-Paul was a former monastery in Saint-Rémy, less than 30 kilometres (19 mi) from Arles, and was run by a former naval doctor, Théophile Peyron. Van Gogh had two cells with barred windows, one of which was to be used as a studio. The clinic and its garden became the main subjects of his paintings. He made several studies of the hospital’s interiors, such as Vestibule of the Asylum and Saint-Rémy (September 1889). Some of his works from this time are characterised by swirls, such as The Starry Night. He was allowed short supervised walks, which led to paintings of cypresses and olive trees, including Olive Trees with the Alpilles in the Background 1889, Cypresses 1889, Cornfield with Cypresses (1889), Country road in Provence by Night (1890). In September 1889 he produced two further versions of Bedroom in Arles. Limited access to life outside the clinic resulted in a shortage of subject matter. Van Gogh was left to work on interpretations of other artist’s paintings, such as Millet’s The Sower and Noonday Rest, as well as variations on his own earlier work. Van Gogh was an admirer of the Realism of Jules Breton, Gustave Courbet and Millet, and he compared his copies to a musician’s interpreting Beethoven. His The Round of the Prisoners (1890) was painted after an engraving by Gustave Doré (1832–1883). Tralbaut suggests that the face of the prisoner in the centre of the painting looking towards the viewer is Van Gogh himself; Jan Hulsker discounts this. Between February and April 1890 Van Gogh suffered a severe relapse. Depressed and unable to bring himself to write, he was still able to paint and draw a little during this time, and he later wrote to Theo that he had made a few small canvases „from memory … reminisces of the North”. Among these was Two Peasant Women Digging in a Snow-Covered Field at Sunset. Hulsker believes that this small group of paintings formed the nucleus of many drawings and study sheets depicting landscapes and figures that Van Gogh worked on during this time. He comments that this short period was the only time that Van Gogh’s illness had a significant effect on his work. Van Gogh asked his mother and his brother to send him drawings and rough work he had done in the early 1880s so he could work on new paintings from his old sketches. Belonging to this period is Sorrowing Old Man („At Eternity’s Gate”), a colour study Hulsker describes as „another unmistakable remembrance of times long past”. His late paintings show an artist at the height of his abilities, according to the art critic Robert Hughes, „longing for concision and grace”. Albert Aurier praised his work in the Mercure de France in January 1890, and described him as „a genius”.In February Van Gogh painted five versions of L’Arlésienne (Madame Ginoux), based on a charcoal sketch Gauguin had produced when she sat for both artists in November 1888. Also in February, Van Gogh was invited by Les XX, a society of avant-garde painters in Brussels, to participate in their annual exhibition. At the opening dinner a Les XX member, Henry de Groux, insulted Van Gogh’s work. Toulouse-Lautrec demanded satisfaction, and Signac declared he would continue to fight for Van Gogh’s honour if Lautrec surrendered. De Groux apologised for the slight and left the group. Later, while Van Gogh’s exhibit was on display with the Artistes Indépendants in Paris, Claude Monet said that his work was the best in the show. After the birth of his nephew, Van Gogh wrote, „I started right away to make a picture for him, to hang in their bedroom, branches of white almond blossom against a blue sky.” In May 1890 Van Gogh left the clinic in Saint-Rémy to move nearer to both Dr Paul Gachet in Auvers-sur-Oise and to Theo. Gachet was an amateur painter and had treated several other artists – Camille Pissarro had recommended him. Van Gogh’s first impression was that Gachet was „iller than I am, it seemed to me, or let’s say just as much.” During his last weeks, at Saint-Rémy, his thoughts returned to „memories of the North”,and several of the approximately 70 oils, painted during as many days in Auvers-sur-Oise, are reminiscent of northern scenes. In June 1890, he painted several portraits of his doctor, including Portrait of Dr Gachet, and his only etching. In each the emphasis is on Gachet’s melancholic disposition. There are other paintings which are probably unfinished, including Thatched Cottages by a Hill. In July, Van Gogh wrote that he had become absorbed „in the immense plain against the hills, boundless as the sea, delicate yellow”. He had first become captivated by the fields in May, when the wheat was young and green. In July he described to Theo „vast fields of wheat under turbulent skies”. He wrote that they represented his „sadness and extreme loneliness”, and that the „canvases will tell you what I cannot say in words, that is, how healthy and invigorating I find the countryside”. Wheatfield with Crows, from July 1890, is a painting Hulsker discusses as being associated with „melancholy and extreme loneliness”. Hulsker identifies seven oil paintings from Auvers that follow the completion of Wheatfield with Crows. Death On 27 July 1890, aged 37, Van Gogh shot himself in the chest with a 7mm Lefaucheux à broche revolver. There were no witnesses and he died 30 hours after the incident. The shooting may have taken place in the wheat field in which he had been painting, or a local barn. The bullet was deflected by a rib and passed through his chest without doing apparent damage to internal organs – probably stopped by his spine. He was able to walk back to the Auberge Ravoux, where he was attended to by two doctors, but without a surgeon present the bullet could not be removed. The doctors tended to him as best they could, then left him alone in his room, smoking his pipe. The following morning Theo rushed to his brother’s side, finding him in good spirits. But within hours Vincent began to fail, suffering from an untreated infection resulting from the wound. He died in the early hours of 29 July. According to Theo, Vincent’s last words were: „The sadness will last forever”. Van Gogh was buried on 30 July, in the municipal cemetery of Auvers-sur-Oise. The funeral was attended by Theo van Gogh, Andries Bonger, Charles Laval, Lucien Pissarro, Émile Bernard, Julien Tanguy and Paul Gachet, among twenty family, friends and locals. Theo had been ill, and his health began to decline further after his brother’s death. Weak and unable to come to terms with Vincent’s absence, he died on 25 January 1891 at Den Dolder, and was buried in Utrecht. In 1914, Johanna van Gogh-Bonger had Theo’s body exhumed and moved from Utrecht to be re-buried alongside Vincent’s at Auvers-sur-Oise. There have been numerous debates as to the nature of Van Gogh’s illness and its effect on his work, and many retrospective diagnoses have been proposed. The consensus is that Van Gogh had an episodic condition with periods of normal functioning. Perry was the first to suggest bipolar disorder in 1947, and this has been supported by the psychiatrists Hemphill and Blumer. Biochemist Wilfred Arnold has countered that the symptoms are more consistent with acute intermittent porphyria, noting that the popular link between bipolar disorder and creativity might be spurious. Temporal lobe epilepsy with bouts of depression has also been suggested. Whatever the diagnosis, his condition was likely worsened by malnutrition, overwork, insomnia and alcohol. Style and works Artistic development Van Gogh drew and painted with watercolours while at school, but only a few examples survive and the authorship of some has been challenged. When he took up art as an adult, he began at an elementary level. In early 1882, his uncle, Cornelis Marinus, owner of a well-known gallery of contemporary art in Amsterdam, asked for drawings of The Hague. Van Gogh’s work did not live up to expectations. Marinus offered a second commission, specifying the subject matter in detail, but was again disappointed with the result. Van Gogh persevered; he experimented with lighting in his studio using variable shutters, and with different drawing materials. For more than a year he worked on single figures – highly elaborate studies in black and white, which at the time gained him only criticism. Later, they were recognised as early masterpieces. In August 1882 Theo gave Vincent money to buy materials for working en plein air. Vincent wrote that he could now „go on painting with new vigour”. From early 1883 he worked on multi-figure compositions. He had some of them photographed, but when his brother remarked that they lacked liveliness and freshness, he destroyed them and turned to oil painting. Van Gogh turned to well-known Hague School artists like Weissenbruch and Blommers, and received technical advice from them, as well as from painters like De Bock and Van der Weele, both artists of the Hague School’s second generation. When he moved to Nuenen after the period in Drenthe he began several large paintings but destroyed most of them. The Potato Eaters and its companion pieces are the only ones to have survived. Following a visit to the Rijksmuseum, Van Gogh wrote of his admiration for the quick, economical brushwork of the Dutch Masters, especially Rembrandt and Frans Hals. He was aware that many of his faults were due to lack of experience and technical expertise, so in November 1885 he travelled to Antwerp and later Paris to learn and develop his skills. Theo criticised The Potato Eaters for its dark palette, which he thought unsuitable for a modern style. During Van Gogh’s stay in Paris between 1886 and 1887, he tried to master a new, lighter palette. His Portrait of Père Tanguy (1887) shows his success with the brighter palette, and is evidence of an evolving personal style. Charles Blanc’s treatise on colour interested him greatly, and led him to work with complementary colours. Van Gogh came to believe that the effect of colour went beyond the descriptive; he said that „colour expresses something in itself”.According to Hughes, Van Gogh perceived colour as having a „psychological and moral weight”, as exemplified in the garish reds and greens of The Night Cafe, a work he wanted to „express the terrible passions of humanity”.Yellow meant the most to him, because it symbolised emotional truth. He used yellow as a symbol for sunlight, life, and God. Van Gogh strove to be a painter of rural life and nature, and during his first summer in Arles he used his new palette to paint landscapes and traditional rural life. His belief that a power existed behind the natural led him to try to capture a sense of that power, or the essence of nature in his art, sometimes through the use of symbols. His renditions of the sower, at first copied from Jean-François Millet, reflect Van Gogh’s religious beliefs: the sower as Christ sowing life beneath the hot sun. These were themes and motifs he returned to often to rework and develop. His paintings of flowers are filled with symbolism, but rather than use traditional Christian iconography he made up his own, where life is lived under the sun and work is an allegory of life. In Arles, having gained confidence after painting spring blossoms and learning to capture bright sunlight, he was ready to paint The Sower. Van Gogh stayed within what he called the „guise of reality”,and was critical of overly stylised works. He wrote afterwards that the abstraction of Starry Night had gone too far and that reality had „receded too far in the background”.Hughes describes it as a moment of extreme visionary ecstasy: the stars are in a great whirl, reminiscent of Hokusai’s Great Wave, the movement in the heaven above is reflected by the movement of the cypress on the earth below, and the painter’s vision is „translated into a thick, emphatic plasma of paint”. Between 1885 and his death in 1890, Van Gogh appears to have been building an oeuvre, a collection that reflected his personal vision, and could be commercially successful. He was influenced by Blanc’s definition of style, that a true painting required optimal use of colour, perspective and brushstrokes. Van Gogh applied the word „purposeful” to paintings he thought he had mastered, as opposed to those he thought of as studies. He painted many series of studies; most of which were still lifes, many executed as colour experiments or as gifts to friends. The work in Arles contributed considerably to his oeuvre: those he thought the most important from that time were The Sower, Night Cafe, Memory of the Garden in Etten and Starry Night. With their broad brushstrokes, inventive perspectives, colours, contours and designs, these paintings represent the style he sought. Major series Van Gogh’s stylistic developments are usually linked to the periods he spent living in different places across Europe. He was inclined to immerse himself in local cultures and lighting conditions, although he maintained a highly individual visual outlook throughout. His evolution as an artist was slow, and he was aware of his painterly limitations. He moved home often, perhaps to expose himself to new visual stimuli, and through exposure develop his technical skill. Art historian Melissa McQuillan believes the moves also reflect later stylistic changes, and that Van Gogh used the moves to avoid conflict, and as a coping mechanism for when the idealistic artist was faced with the realities of his then current situation. Portraits The portraits gave Van Gogh his best opportunity to earn. He believed they were „the only thing in painting that moves me deeply and that gives me a sense of the infinite.” He wrote to his sister that he wished to paint portraits that would endure, and that he would use colour to capture their emotions and character rather than aiming for photographic realism. Those closest to Van Gogh are mostly absent from his portraits; he rarely painted Theo, Van Rappard or Bernard. The portraits of his mother were from photographs. In December 1888 he painted La Berceuse – a figure that he thought as good as his sunflowers. It has a limited palette, varied brushstrokes and simple contours. It appears to be a culmination of portraits of the Roulin family completed in Arles between November and December. The portraits show a shift in style from the fluid, restrained brushstrokes and even surface of Portrait of the Postman to the frenetic style, rough surface, broad brushstrokes and use of a palette knife in Madame Roulin with Baby. Van Gogh created more than 43 self-portraits between 1885 and 1889.[230][note 13] They were usually completed in series, such as those painted in Paris in mid-1887, and continued until shortly before his death. Generally the portraits were studies, created during introspective periods when he was reluctant to mix with others, or when he lacked models, and so painted himself. The self-portraits reflect an unusually high degree of self-scrutiny. Often they were intended to mark important periods in his life, for example the mid-1887 Paris series were painted at the point where he became aware of Claude Monet, Paul Cezanne and Signac. In Self-Portrait with Grey Felt Hat, heavy strains of paint spread outwards across the canvas. It is one of his most renowned self-portraits of that period, „with its highly organized rhythmic brushstrokes, and the novel halo derived from the Neo-Impressionist repertoire was what Van Gogh himself called a ‘purposeful’ canvas”. They contain a wide array of physiognomical representations. Van Gogh’s mental and physical condition is usually apparent; he may appear unkempt, unshaven or with a neglected beard, with deeply sunken eyes, a weak jaw, or having lost teeth. Some show him with full lips, a long face or prominent skull, or sharpened, alert features. His hair may be the usual red, or at times ash coloured. Van Gogh’s gaze is seldom directed at the viewer. The portraits vary in intensity and colour, and in those painted after December 1888 especially, the vivid colours highlight the haggard pallor of his skin. Some depict the artist with a beard, others without. He can be seen with bandages in portraits executed just after he mutilated his ear. In only a few does he depict himself as a painter. Those painted in Saint-Rémy show the head from the right, the side opposite his damaged ear, as he painted himself reflected in his mirror. Van Gogh painted several landscapes with flowers, including roses, lilacs, irises, and sunflowers. Some reflect his interests in the language of colour, and also in Japanese ukiyo-e.[240] There are two series of dying sunflowers. The first was painted in Paris in 1887 and shows flowers lying on the ground. The second set was completed a year later in Arles, and is of bouquets in a vase positioned in early morning light. Both are built from thickly layered paintwork, which, according to the London National Gallery, evoke the „texture of the seed-heads”. In these series, Van Gogh was not preoccupied by his usual interest in filling his paintings with subjectivity and emotion; rather the two series are intended to display his technical skill and working methods to Gauguin, who was about to visit. The 1888 paintings were created during a rare period of optimism for the artist. Vincent wrote to Theo in August 1888, „I’m painting with the gusto of a Marseillais eating bouillabaisse, which won’t surprise you when it’s a question of painting large sunflowers … If I carry out this plan there’ll be a dozen or so panels. The whole thing will therefore be a symphony in blue and yellow. I work on it all these mornings, from sunrise. Because the flowers wilt quickly and it’s a matter of doing the whole thing in one go.” The sunflowers were painted to decorate the walls in anticipation of Gauguin’s visit, and Van Gogh placed individual works around the Yellow House’s guest room in Arles. Gauguin was deeply impressed and later acquired two of the Paris versions. After Gauguin’s departure, Van Gogh imagined the two major versions of the sunflowers as wings of the Berceuse Triptych, and included them in his Les XX in Brussels exhibit. Today the major pieces of the series are among his best known, celebrated for the sickly connotations of the colour yellow and its tie-in with the Yellow House, the expressionism of the brush strokes, and their contrast against often dark backgrounds. Fifteen canvases depict cypresses, a tree he became fascinated with in Arles. He brought life to the trees, which were traditionally seen as emblematic of death. The series of cypresses he began in Arles featured the trees in the distance, as windbreaks in fields; when he was at Saint-Rémy he brought them to the foreground. Vincent wrote to Theo in May 1889: „Cypresses still preoccupy me, I should like to do something with them like my canvases of sunflowers”; he went on to say, „They are beautiful in line and proportion like an Egyptian obelisk.” In mid-1889, and at his sister Wil’s request, Van Gogh painted several smaller versions of Wheat Field with Cypresses. The works are characterised by swirls and densely painted impasto, and include The Starry Night, in which cypresses dominate the foreground. Other works from this period include Olive Trees with the Alpilles in the Background (1889, about which in a letter to his brother Van Gogh wrote, „At last I have a landscape with olives”), Cypresses (1889), Cypresses with Two Figures (1889–90), and Road with Cypress and Star (1890). While in Saint-Rémy, Van Gogh spent time outside the asylum, where he painted trees in the olive groves. In these works natural life is rendered as gnarled and arthritic as if a personification of the natural world, which are, according to Hughes, filled with „a continuous field of energy of which nature is a manifestation”. After Van Gogh’s arrival in Arles in February 1888. The 14 paintings are optimistic, joyous and visually expressive of the burgeoning spring. They are delicately sensitive and unpopulated. He painted swiftly, and although he brought to this series a version of Impressionism, a strong sense of personal style began to emerge during this period. The transience of the blossoming trees, and the passing of the season, seemed to align with his sense of impermanence and belief in a new beginning in Arles. During the blossoming of the trees that spring, he found „a world of motifs that could not have been more Japanese”.Vincent wrote to Theo on 21 April 1888 that he had 10 orchards and „one big [painting] of a cherry tree, which I’ve spoiled”. During this period Van Gogh mastered the use of light by subjugating shadows and painting the trees as if they are the source of light – almost in a sacred manner. Early the following year he painted another smaller group of orchards, including View of Arles, Flowering Orchards. Van Gogh was enthralled by the landscape and vegetation of the south of France, and often visited the farm gardens near Arles. In the vivid light of the Mediterranean climate his palette significantly brightened. Van Gogh made several painting excursions during visits to the landscape around Arles. He made paintings of harvests, wheat fields and other rural landmarks of the area, including The Old Mill (1888); a good example of a picturesque structure bordering the wheat fields beyond. At various points, Van Gogh painted the view from his window – at The Hague, Antwerp, and Paris. These works culminated in The Wheat Field series, which depicted the view from his cells in the asylum at Saint-Rémy. Many of the late paintings are sombre but essentially optimistic and, right up to the time of Van Gogh’s death, reflect his desire to return to lucid mental health. Yet some of his final works reflect his deepening concerns. Writing in July 1890, from Auvers, Van Gogh said that he had become absorbed „in the immense plain against the hills, boundless as the sea, delicate yellow”. Van Gogh was captivated by the fields in May when the wheat was young and green. His Wheatfields at Auvers with White House shows a more subdued palette of yellows and blues, which creates a sense of idyllic harmony. About 10 July 1890 Van Gogh wrote to Theo of „vast fields of wheat under troubled skies”. Wheatfield with Crows shows the artist’s state of mind in his final days; Hulsker describes the work as a „doom-filled painting with threatening skies and ill-omened crows”. Its dark palette and heavy brushstrokes convey a sense of menace. Reputation After Van Gogh’s first exhibitions in the late 1880s, his reputation grew steadily among artists, art critics, dealers and collectors. In 1887 André Antoine hung Van Gogh’s alongside works of Georges Seurat and Paul Signac, at the Théâtre Libre in Paris; some were acquired by Julien Tanguy. In 1889 his work was described in the journal Le Moderniste Illustré by Albert Aurier as characterised by „fire, intensity, sunshine”.Ten paintings were shown at the Société des Artistes Indépendants, in Brussels in January 1890. After Van Gogh’s death, memorial exhibitions were held in Brussels, Paris, The Hague and Antwerp. His work was shown in several high-profile exhibitions, including six works at Les XX; in 1891 there was a retrospective exhibition in Brussels. In 1892 Octave Mirbeau wrote that Van Gogh’s suicide was an „infinitely sadder loss for art … even though the populace has not crowded to a magnificent funeral, and poor Vincent van Gogh, whose demise means the extinction of a beautiful flame of genius, has gone to his death as obscure and neglected as he lived.” Theo died in January 1891, removing Vincent’s most vocal and well-connected champion. Theo’s widow Johanna van Gogh-Bonger was a Dutchwoman in her twenties who had not known either her husband or her brother-in law very long and who suddenly had to take care of several hundreds of paintings, letters and drawings, as well as her infant son, Vincent Willem van Gogh. Gauguin was not inclined to offer assistance in promoting Van Gogh’s reputation, and Johanna’s brother Andries Bonger also seemed lukewarm about his work. Aurier, one of Van Gogh’s earliest supporters among the critics, died of typhoid fever in 1892 at the age of twenty-seven. In 1892 Émile Bernard organised a small solo show of Van Gogh’s paintings in Paris, and Julien Tanguy exhibited his Van Gogh paintings with several consigned from Johanna van Gogh-Bonger. In April 1894 the Durand-Rue Gallery in Paris agreed to take 10 paintings on consignment from Van Gogh’s estate. In 1896, the Fauvist painter Henri Matisse, then an unknown art student, visited John Peter Russell on Belle Île off Brittany. Russell had been a close friend of Van Gogh; he introduced Matisse to the Dutchman’s work, and gave him a Van Gogh drawing. Influenced by Van Gogh, Matisse abandoned his earth-coloured palette for bright colours. In Paris in 1901 a large Van Gogh retrospective was held at the Bernheim-Jeune Gallery, which excited André Derain and Maurice de Vlaminck, and contributed to the emergence of Fauvism. Important group exhibitions took place with the Sonderbund artists in Cologne in 1912, the Armory Show, New York in 1913, and Berlin in 1914. Henk Bremmer was instrumental in teaching and talking about Van Gogh, and introduced Helene Kröller-Müller to Van Gogh’s art; she became an avid collector of his work. The early figures in German Expressionism such as Emil Nolde acknowledged a debt to Van Gogh’s work. Bremmer assisted Jacob Baart de la Faille, whose catalogue raisonné L’Oeuvre de Vincent van Gogh appeared in 1928. Van Gogh’s fame reached its first peak in Austria and Germany before World War I, helped by the publication of his letters in three volumes in 1914. His letters are expressive and literate, and have been described as among the foremost 19th-century writings of their kind. These began a compelling mythology of Van Gogh as an intense and dedicated painter who suffered for his art and died young. In 1934 the novelist Irving Stone published an account of Van Gogh’s life titled Lust for Life, based on Van Gogh’s letters to Theo. This book and the 1956 film of the same name further enhanced his fame. In 1957 Francis Bacon based a series of paintings on reproductions of Van Gogh’s The Painter on the Road to Tarascon, the original of which was destroyed during the Second World War. Bacon was inspired by an image he described as „haunting”, and regarded Van Gogh as an alienated outsider, a position which resonated with him. Bacon identified with Van Gogh’s theories of art and quoted lines written to Theo: „[R]eal painters do not paint things as they are … They paint them as they themselves feel them to be.” Van Gogh’s works are among the world’s most expensive paintings. Those sold for over US$100 million (today’s equivalent) include Portrait of Dr Gachet, Portrait of Joseph Roulin and Irises. The Metropolitan Museum of Art’s version of Wheat Field with Cypresses was acquired in 1993 for US$57 million. In 2015 L’Allée des Alyscamps sold for US$66.3 million at Sotheby’s, New York, exceeding its reserve of US$40 million. Van Gogh Museum Van Gogh’s nephew and namesake, Vincent Willem van Gogh (1890–1978), inherited the estate after his mother’s death in 1925. During the early 1950s he arranged for the publication of a complete edition of the letters presented in four volumes and several languages. He then began negotiations with the Dutch government to subsidise a foundation to purchase and house the entire collection. Theo’s son participated in planning the project in the hope that the works would be exhibited under the best possible conditions. The project began in 1963; architect Gerrit Rietveld was commissioned to design it, and after his death in 1964 Kisho Kurokawa took charge. Work progressed throughout the 1960s, with 1972 as the target for its grand opening. The Van Gogh Museum opened in the Museumplein in Amsterdam in 1973. It became the second most popular museum in the Netherlands, after the Rijksmuseum, regularly receiving more than 1.5 million visitors a year. In 2015 it had a record 1.9 million; 85 percent of the visitors come from other countries. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upbXc6HgVh0 FOTO: Vincent van Gogh Written by: Constantin Enache Vincent Willem van Gogh (30 March 1853 – 29 July 1890) was a Dutch Post-Impressionist painter who is among the most famous and influential figures in the history of Western art. In just over a decade he created about 2,100 artworks, including around 860 oil paintings, most of them in the last two years of his life in France, where he died. They include landscapes, still lifes, portraits and self-portraits, and are characterised by bold colours and dramatic, impulsive and expressive brushwork that contributed to the foundations of modern art. His suicide at 37 followed years of mental illness and poverty. Born into an upper-middle-class family, Van Gogh drew as a child and was serious, quiet and thoughtful. As a young man he worked as an art dealer, often travelling, but became depressed after he was transferred to London. He turned to religion, and spent time as a Protestant missionary in southern Belgium. He drifted in ill health and solitude before taking up painting in 1881, having moved back home with his parents. His younger brother Theo supported him financially, and the two kept up a long correspondence by letter. His early works, mostly still lifes and depictions of peasant labourers, contain few signs of the vivid colour that distinguished his later work. In 1886 he moved to Paris, where he met members of the avant-garde, including Émile Bernard and Paul Gauguin, who were reacting against the Impressionist sensibility. As his work developed he created a new approach to still lifes and local landscapes. His paintings grew brighter in colour as he developed a style that became fully realised during his stay in Arles in the south of France in 1888. During this period he broadened his subject matter to include olive trees, cypresses, wheat fields and sunflowers. Van Gogh suffered from psychotic episodes and delusions and though he worried about his mental stability, he often neglected his physical health, did not eat properly and drank heavily. His friendship with Gauguin ended after a confrontation with a razor, when in a rage, he severed part of his own left ear. He spent time in psychiatric hospitals, including a period at Saint-Rémy. After he discharged himself and moved to the Auberge Ravoux in Auvers-sur-Oise near Paris, he came under the care of the homeopathic doctor Paul Gachet. His depression continued and on 27 July 1890, Van Gogh shot himself in the chest with a revolver. He died from his injuries two days later. Van Gogh was unsuccessful during his lifetime, and was considered a madman and a failure. He became famous after his suicide, and exists in the public imagination as the quintessential misunderstood genius, the artist „where discourses on madness and creativity converge”. His reputation began to grow in the early 20th century as elements of his painting style came to be incorporated by the Fauves and German Expressionists. He attained widespread critical, commercial and popular success over the ensuing decades, and is remembered as an important but tragic painter, whose troubled personality typifies the romantic ideal of the tortured artist. The most comprehensive primary source on Van Gogh is the correspondence between him and his younger brother, Theo. Their lifelong friendship, and most of what is known of Vincent’s thoughts and theories of art, are recorded in the hundreds of letters they exchanged from 1872 until 1890. Theo van Gogh was an art dealer and provided his brother with financial and emotional support, and access to influential people on the contemporary art scene. Theo kept all of Vincent’s letters to him; Vincent kept few of the letters he received. After both had died, Theo’s widow Johanna arranged for the publication of some of their letters. A few appeared in 1906 and 1913; the majority were published in 1914. Vincent’s letters are eloquent and expressive and have been described as having a „diary-like intimacy”,[9] and read in parts like autobiography. The translator Arnold Pomerans wrote that their publication adds a „fresh dimension to the understanding of Van Gogh’s artistic achievement, an understanding granted us by virtually no other painter”. There are more than 600 letters from Vincent to Theo and around 40 from Theo to Vincent. There are 22 to his sister Wil, 58 to the painter Anthon van Rappard, 22 to Émile Bernard as well as individual letters to Paul Signac, Paul Gauguin and the critic Albert Aurier. Some are illustrated with sketches. Many are undated, but art historians have been able to place most in chronological order. Problems in transcription and dating remain, mainly with those posted from Arles. While there Vincent wrote around 200 letters in Dutch, French and English. There is a gap in the record when he lived in Paris as the brothers lived together and had no need to correspond. Early years Vincent Willem van Gogh was born on 30 March 1853 in Groot-Zundert, in the predominantly Catholic province of North Brabant in the southern Netherlands. He was the oldest surviving child of Theodorus van Gogh, a minister of the Dutch Reformed Church, and Anna Cornelia Carbentus. Van Gogh was given the name of his grandfather, and of a brother stillborn exactly a year before his birth. Vincent was a common name in the Van Gogh family: his grandfather, Vincent (1789–1874), who received a degree in theology at the University of Leiden in 1811, had six sons, three of whom became art dealers. This Vincent may have been named after his own great-uncle, a sculptor (1729–1802). Van Gogh’s mother came from a prosperous family in The Hague, and his father was the youngest son of a minister. The two met when Anna’s younger sister, Cornelia, married Theodorus’s older brother Vincent (Cent). Van Gogh’s parents married in May 1851 and moved to Zundert. His brother Theo was born on 1 May 1857. There was another brother, Cor, and three sisters: Elisabeth, Anna, and Willemina (known as „Wil”). In later life Van Gogh remained in touch only with Willemina and Theo. Van Gogh’s mother was a rigid and religious woman who emphasised the importance of family to the point of claustrophobia for those around her. Theodorus’s salary was modest, but the Church supplied the family with a house, a maid, two cooks, a gardener, a carriage and horse, and Anna instilled in the children a duty to uphold the family’s high social position. Van Gogh was a serious and thoughtful child. He was taught at home by his mother and a governess, and in 1860 was sent to the village school. In 1864 he was placed in a boarding school at Zevenbergen, where he felt abandoned, and campaigned to come home. Instead, in 1866 his parents sent him to the middle school in Tilburg, where he was deeply unhappy. His interest in art began at a young age; encouraged to draw as a child by his mother, his early drawings are expressive, but do not approach the intensity of his later work. Constantijn C. Huysmans, who had been a successful artist in Paris, taught the students at Tilburg. His philosophy was to reject technique in favour of capturing the impressions of things, particularly nature or common objects. Van Gogh’s profound unhappiness seems to have overshadowed the lessons, which had little effect; in March 1868 he abruptly returned home. He later wrote that his youth was „austere and cold, and sterile”. In July 1869 Van Gogh’s uncle Cent obtained a position for him at the art dealers Goupil & Cie in The Hague. After completing his training in 1873, he was transferred to Goupil’s London branch at Southampton Street, and took lodgings at 87 Hackford Road, Stockwell. This was a happy time for Van Gogh; he was successful at work, and at 20 was earning more than his father. Theo’s wife later remarked that this was the best year of his life. He became infatuated with his landlady’s daughter, Eugénie Loyer, but was rejected after confessing his feelings; she was secretly engaged to a former lodger. He grew more isolated, and religiously fervent. His father and uncle arranged a transfer to Paris in 1875, where he became resentful of issues such as the degree to which the firm commodified art, and was dismissed a year later. In April 1876 he returned to England to take unpaid work as a supply teacher in a small boarding school in Ramsgate. When the proprietor moved to Isleworth in Middlesex, Van Gogh went with him. The arrangement did not work out and he left to become a Methodist minister’s assistant. His parents had meanwhile moved to Etten in 1876 he returned home at Christmas for six months and took work at a bookshop in Dordrecht. He was unhappy in the position and spent his time doodling or translating passages from the Bible into English, French and German. He immersed himself in religion, and became increasingly pious and monastic. According to his flatmate of the time, Paulus van Görlitz, Van Gogh ate frugally, avoiding meat. To support his religious conviction and his desire to become a pastor, in 1877 the family sent him to live with his uncle Johannes Stricker, a respected theologian, in Amsterdam. Van Gogh prepared for the University of Amsterdam theology entrance examination; he failed the exam, and left his uncle’s house in July 1878. He undertook, but also failed, a three-month course at a Protestant missionary school in Laken, near Brussels. In January 1879 he took up a post as a missionary at Petit-Wasmes in the coal-mining district of Borinage in Belgium. To show support for his impoverished congregation, he gave up his comfortable lodgings at a bakery to a homeless person, and moved to a small hut where he slept on straw.[46] His squalid living conditions did not endear him to church authorities, who dismissed him for „undermining the dignity of the priesthood”. He then walked the 75 kilometres (47 mi) to Brussels, returned briefly to Cuesmes in the Borinage, but gave in to pressure from his parents to return home to Etten. He stayed there until around March 1880,[note 3] which caused concern and frustration for his parents. His father was especially frustrated and advised that his son should be committed to the lunatic asylum at Geel. Van Gogh returned to Cuesmes in August 1880, where he lodged with a miner until October. He became interested in the people and scenes around him, and recorded them in drawings after Theo’s suggestion that he take up art in earnest. He travelled to Brussels later in the year, to follow Theo’s recommendation that he study with the Dutch artist Willem Roelofs, who persuaded him – in spite of his dislike of formal schools of art – to attend the Académie Royale des Beaux-Arts. He registered at the Académie in November 1880, where he studied anatomy and the standard rules of modelling and perspective. Van Gogh returned to Etten in April 1881 for an extended stay with his parents. He continued to draw, often using his neighbours as subjects. In August 1881, his recently widowed cousin, Cornelia „Kee” Vos-Stricker, daughter of his mother’s older sister Willemina and Johannes Stricker, arrived for a visit. He was thrilled and took long walks with her. Kee was seven years older than him, and had an eight-year-old son. Van Gogh surprised everyone by declaring his love to her and proposing marriage. She refused with the words „No, nay, never” („nooit, neen, nimmer”). After Kee returned to Amsterdam, Van Gogh went to The Hague to try and sell paintings and to meet with his second cousin, Anton Mauve. Mauve was the successful artist Van Gogh longed to be. Mauve invited him to return in a few months, and suggested he spend the intervening time working in charcoal and pastels; Van Gogh went back to Etten and followed this advice. Late in November 1881, Van Gogh wrote a letter to Johannes Stricker, which he described to Theo as an attack. Within days he left for Amsterdam. Kee would not meet him, and her parents wrote that his „persistence is disgusting”. In despair, he held his left hand in the flame of a lamp, with the words: „Let me see her for as long as I can keep my hand in the flame.” He did not recall the event well, but later assumed that his uncle had blown out the flame. Kee’s father made it clear that her refusal should be heeded and that the two would not marry, largely because of Van Gogh’s inability to support himself. Mauve took Van Gogh on as a student and introduced him to watercolour, which he worked on for the next month before returning home for Christmas. He quarreled with his father, refusing to attend church, and left for The Hague. Within a month Van Gogh and Mauve fell out, possibly over the viability of drawing from plaster casts. Van Gogh could only afford to hire people from the street as models, a practice of which Mauve seems to have disapproved. In June Van Gogh suffered a bout of gonorrhoea and spent three weeks in hospital. Soon after, he first painted in oils, bought with money borrowed from Theo. He liked the medium, and spread the paint liberally, scraping from the canvas and working back with the brush. He wrote that he was surprised at how good the results were. A view from a window of pale red rooftops. A bird flies in the blue sky; in the near distance there are fields and to the right, the town and other buildings can be seen. On the distant horizon are chimneys. By March 1882 Mauve appears to have gone cold towards Van Gogh, and stopped replying to his letters. He had learned of Van Gogh’s new domestic arrangement with an alcoholic prostitute, Clasina Maria „Sien” Hoornik (1850–1904), and her young daughter. Van Gogh had met Sien towards the end of January 1882, when she had a five-year-old daughter and was pregnant. She had previously borne two children who died, but Van Gogh was unaware of this; on 2 July, she gave birth to a baby boy, Willem. When Van Gogh’s father discovered the details of their relationship, he put pressure on his son to abandon Sien and her two children. Vincent at first defied him, and considered moving the family out of the city, but in late 1883 left Sien and the children. Poverty may have pushed Sien back into prostitution; the home became less happy and Van Gogh may have felt family life was irreconcilable with his artistic development. Sien gave her daughter to her mother, and baby Willem to her brother. Willem remembered visiting Rotterdam when he was about 12, when an uncle tried to persuade Sien to marry in order to legitimise the child. He believed Van Gogh was his father, but the timing of his birth makes this unlikely. Sien drowned herself in the River Scheldt in 1904. In September 1883 Van Gogh moved to Drenthe in the northern Netherlands. In December, driven by loneliness, he went to live with his parents, then in Nuenen, North Brabant. Emerging artist Nuenen and Antwerp (1883–86) In Nuenen, Van Gogh focused on painting and drawing. Working outside and very quickly, he completed sketches and paintings of weavers and their cottages. From August 1884, Margot Begemann, a neighbour’s daughter ten years his senior, joined him on his forays; she fell in love and he reciprocated, though less enthusiastically. They wanted to marry, but neither side of their families were in favour. Margot was distraught and took an overdose of strychnine, but survived after Van Gogh rushed her to a nearby hospital. On 26 March 1885, his father died of a heart attack. Van Gogh painted several groups of still lifes in 1885. During his two-year stay in Nuenen, he completed numerous drawings and watercolours, and nearly 200 oil paintings. His palette consisted mainly of sombre earth tones, particularly dark brown, and showed no sign of the vivid colours that distinguish his later work. There was interest from a dealer in Paris early in 1885. Theo asked Vincent if he had paintings ready to exhibit. In May, Van Gogh responded with his first major work, The Potato Eaters, and a series of „peasant character studies” which were the culmination of several years of work. When he complained that Theo was not making enough effort to sell his paintings in Paris, his brother responded that they were too dark, and not in keeping with the bright style of Impressionism. In August his work was publicly exhibited for the first time, in the shop windows of the dealer Leurs in The Hague. One of his young peasant sitters became pregnant in September 1885; Van Gogh was accused of forcing himself upon her, and the village priest forbade parishioners to model for him. He moved to Antwerp that November, and rented a room above a paint dealer’s shop in the rue des Images (Lange Beeldekensstraat). He lived in poverty and ate poorly, preferring to spend the money Theo sent on painting materials and models. Bread, coffee and tobacco became his staple diet. In February 1886 he wrote to Theo that he could only remember eating six hot meals since the previous May. His teeth became loose and painful. In Antwerp he applied himself to the study of colour theory and spent time in museums—particularly studying the work of Peter Paul Rubens – and broadened his palette to include carmine, cobalt blue and emerald green. Van Gogh bought Japanese ukiyo-e woodcuts in the docklands, later incorporating elements of their style into the background of some of his paintings. He was drinking heavily again, and was hospitalised between February and March 1886, when he was possibly also treated for syphilis. After his recovery, and despite his antipathy towards academic teaching, he took the higher-level admission exams at the Academy of Fine Arts in Antwerp, and in January 1886 matriculated in painting and drawing. He became ill and run down by overwork, poor diet and excessive smoking. He started to attend drawing classes after plaster models at the Antwerp Academy on 18 January 1886. He quickly got into trouble with Charles Verlat, the director of the Academy and teacher of a painting class, because of his unconventional painting style. Van Gogh had also clashed with the instructor of the drawing class Franz Vinck. Van Gogh finally started to attend the drawing classes after antique plaster models given by Eugène Siberdt. Soon Siberdt and van Gogh came into conflict when the latter did not comply with Siberdt’s requirement that drawings express the contour and concentrate on the line. When van Gogh was required to draw the Venus of Milo during a drawing class, he produced the limbless, naked torso of a Flemish peasant woman. Siberdt regarded this as defiance against his artistic guidance and made corrections to van Gogh’s drawing with his crayon so vigorously that he tore the paper. Van Gogh then flew into a violent rage and shouted at Siberdt: ‘You clearly do not know what a young woman is like, God damn it! A woman must have hips, buttocks, a pelvis in which she can carry a baby!’ According to some accounts this was the last time van Gogh attended classes at the Academy and he left later for Paris. On 31 March 1886, which was about a month after the confrontation with Siberdt, the teachers of the Academy decided that 17 students, including van Gogh, had to repeat a year. The story that van Gogh was expelled from the Academy by Siberdt is therefore unfounded. Paris (1886–88) Van Gogh moved to Paris in March 1886 where he shared Theo’s rue Laval apartment in Montmartre, and studied at Fernand Cormon’s studio. In June the brothers took a larger flat at 54 rue Lepic. In Paris, Vincent painted portraits of friends and acquaintances, still life paintings, views of Le Moulin de la Galette, scenes in Montmartre, Asnières and along the Seine. In 1885 in Antwerp he had become interested in Japanese ukiyo-e woodblock prints, and had used them to decorate the walls of his studio; while in Paris he collected hundreds of them. He tried his hand at Japonaiserie, tracing a figure from a reproduction on the cover of the magazine Paris Illustre, The Courtesan or Oiran (1887), after Keisai Eisen, which he then graphically enlarged in a painting. After seeing the portrait of Adolphe Monticelli at the Galerie Delareybarette, Van Gogh adopted a brighter palette and a bolder attack, particularly in paintings such as his Seascape at Saintes-Maries (1888). Two years later, Vincent and Theo paid for the publication of a book on Monticelli paintings, and Vincent bought some of Monticelli’s works to add to his collection. Van Gogh learned about Fernand Cormon’s atelier from Theo. He worked at the studio in April and May 1886, where he frequented the circle of the Australian artist John Peter Russell, and met fellow students Émile Bernard, Louis Anquetin and Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec – who painted a portrait of him in pastel. They met at Julien „Père” Tanguy’s paint shop, (which was, at that time, the only place where Paul Cézanne’s paintings were displayed). In 1886, two large exhibitions were staged there, showing Pointillism and Neo-Impressionism for the first time, and bringing attention to Georges Seurat and Paul Signac. Theo kept a stock of Impressionist paintings in his gallery on boulevard Montmartre, but Van Gogh was slow to acknowledge the new developments in art. Conflicts arose between the brothers. At the end of 1886 Theo found living with Vincent to be „almost unbearable”.By early 1887, they were again at peace, and Vincent had moved to Asnières, a northwestern suburb of Paris, where he got to know Signac. He adopted elements of Pointillism, a technique in which a multitude of small coloured dots are applied to the canvas so that when seen from a distance they create an optical blend of hues. The style stresses the ability of complementary colours – including blue and orange – to form vibrant contrasts. While in Asnières Van Gogh painted parks, restaurants and the Seine, including Bridges across the Seine at Asnières. In November 1887, Theo and Vincent befriended Paul Gauguin who had just arrived in Paris. Towards the end of the year, Vincent arranged an exhibition alongside Bernard, Anquetin, and probably Toulouse-Lautrec, at the Grand-Bouillon Restaurant du Chalet, 43 avenue de Clichy, Montmartre. In a contemporary account, Bernard wrote that the exhibition was ahead of anything else in Paris. There Bernard and Anquetin sold their first paintings, and Van Gogh exchanged work with Gauguin. Discussions on art, artists, and their social situations started during this exhibition, continued and expanded to include visitors to the show, like Camille Pissarro and his son Lucien, Signac and Seurat. In February 1888, feeling worn out from life in Paris, Van Gogh left, having painted more than 200 paintings during his two years there. Hours before his departure, accompanied by Theo, he paid his first and only visit to Seurat in his studio. Artistic breakthrough Arles (1888–89) Ill from drink and suffering from smoker’s cough, in February 1888 Van Gogh sought refuge in Arles. He seems to have moved with thoughts of founding an art colony. The Danish artist Christian Mourier-Petersen became his companion for two months, and at first Arles appeared exotic. In a letter, he described it as a foreign country: „The Zouaves, the brothels, the adorable little Arlésienne going to her First Communion, the priest in his surplice, who looks like a dangerous rhinoceros, the people drinking absinthe, all seem to me creatures from another world.” The time in Arles became one of Van Gogh’s more prolific periods: he completed 200 paintings, and more than 100 drawings and watercolours. He was enchanted by the local landscape and light; his works from this period are rich in yellow, ultramarine and mauve. His paintings include harvests, wheat fields and general rural landmarks from the area, including The Old Mill (1888), a picturesque structure bordering the wheat fields. This was one of seven canvases sent to Pont-Aven on 4 October 1888 in an exchange of works with Paul Gauguin, Émile Bernard, Charles Laval and others. The portrayals of the Arles landscape are informed by Van Gogh’s Dutch upbringing; the patchworks of fields and avenues appear flat and lacking perspective, but excel in their use of colour. His new-found appreciation is seen in the range and scope of his work. In March 1888 he painted landscapes using a gridded „perspective frame”; three of the works were shown at the annual exhibition of the Société des Artistes Indépendants. In April, he was visited by the American artist Dodge MacKnight, who was living nearby at Fontvieille. On 1 May 1888, for 15 francs per month, he signed a lease for the eastern wing of the Yellow House at 2 place Lamartine. The rooms were unfurnished and had been uninhabited for months. On 7 May Van Gogh moved from the Hôtel Carrel to the Café de la Gare, having befriended the proprietors, Joseph and Marie Ginoux. The Yellow House had to be furnished before he could fully move in, but he was able to use it as a studio. He wanted a gallery to display his work, and started a series of paintings that eventually included Van Gogh’s Chair (1888), Bedroom in Arles (1888), The Night Café (1888), Café Terrace at Night (September 1888), Starry Night Over the Rhone (1888), and Still Life: Vase with Twelve Sunflowers (1888), all intended for the decoration for the Yellow House. Van Gogh wrote that with The Night Café he tried „to express the idea that the café is a place where one can ruin oneself, go mad, or commit a crime”.When he visited Saintes-Maries-de-la-Mer in June, he gave lessons to a Zouave second lieutenant – Paul-Eugène Milliet– and painted boats on the sea and the village. MacKnight introduced Van Gogh to Eugène Boch, a Belgian painter who sometimes stayed in Fontvieille, and the two exchanged visits in July. Gauguin’s visit (1888) When Gauguin agreed to visit Arles in 1888, Van Gogh hoped for friendship, and the realisation of his idea of an artists’ collective. While waiting, in August he painted Sunflowers. When Boch visited again, Van Gogh painted a portrait of him, as well as the study The Poet Against a Starry Sky. In preparation for Gauguin’s visit, Van Gogh bought two beds on advice from the station’s postal supervisor Joseph Roulin, whose portrait he painted. On 17 September he spent his first night in the still sparsely furnished Yellow House. When Gauguin consented to work and live in Arles with him, Van Gogh started to work on the Décoration for the Yellow House, probably the most ambitious effort he ever undertook. He completed two chair paintings: Van Gogh’s Chair and Gauguin’s Chair. After much pleading from Van Gogh, Gauguin arrived in Arles on 23 October, and in November the two painted together. Gauguin depicted Van Gogh in his The Painter of Sunflowers; Van Gogh painted pictures from memory, following Gauguin’s suggestion. Among these „imaginative” paintings is Memory of the Garden at Etten. Their first joint outdoor venture was at the Alyscamps, when they produced the pendants Les Alyscamps. The single painting Gauguin completed during his visit was Van Gogh Painting Sunflowers. Van Gogh and Gauguin visited Montpellier in December 1888, where they saw works by Courbet and Delacroix in the Musée Fabre. Their relationship began to deteriorate; Van Gogh admired Gauguin and wanted to be treated as his equal, but Gauguin was arrogant and domineering, which frustrated Van Gogh. They often quarrelled; Van Gogh increasingly feared that Gauguin was going to desert him, and the situation, which Van Gogh described as one of „excessive tension”, rapidly headed towards crisis point. The exact sequence of events which led to Van Gogh’s mutilation of his ear is not known. Gauguin claimed, fifteen years later, that the night followed several instances of physically threatening behaviour. Their relationship was complex, and Theo may have owed money to Gauguin, who was suspicious that the brothers were exploiting him financially. It seems likely that Van Gogh had realised that Gauguin was planning to leave. The following days saw heavy rain, leading to the two men being shut in the Yellow House. Gauguin reported that Van Gogh followed when Gauguin left the house for a walk, and „rushed towards me, an open razor in his hand”.This account is uncorroborated; Gauguin was almost certainly absent from the Yellow House that night, most likely in a hotel. After the altercation with Gauguin, Van Gogh returned to his room, where he was assaulted by voices and severed his left ear with a razor (either wholly or in part; accounts differ),causing severe bleeding. He bandaged the wound, wrapped the ear in paper, and delivered the package to a woman at a brothel Van Gogh and Gauguin both frequented. Van Gogh was found unconscious the next morning by a policeman and taken to hospital, where Félix Rey, a young doctor still in training, treated him. The ear was delivered to the hospital, but Rey did not attempt to reattach it as too much time had passed. Van Gogh had no recollection of the event, suggesting that he may have suffered an acute mental breakdown. The hospital diagnosis was „acute mania with generalised delirium”, and within a few days the local police ordered that he be placed in hospital care. Gauguin immediately notified Theo, who on 24 December had proposed marriage to his old friend Andries Bonger’s sister Johanna. That evening Theo rushed to the station to board a night train to Arles. He arrived on Christmas Day, comforted Vincent who seemed to be semi-lucid. That evening he left Arles for the return trip to Paris. During the first days of his treatment, Van Gogh repeatedly and unsuccessfully asked for Gauguin, who asked a policeman attending the case to „be kind enough, Monsieur, to awaken this man with great care, and if he asks for me tell him I have left for Paris; the sight of me might prove fatal for him.” Gauguin fled Arles, never to see Van Gogh again. They continued to correspond and in 1890 Gauguin proposed they form a studio in Antwerp. Other visitors to the hospital included Marie Ginoux and Roulin. Despite a pessimistic diagnosis, Van Gogh recovered and returned to the Yellow House on 7 January 1889. He spent the following month between hospital and home, suffering from hallucinations and delusions of poisoning. In March, the police closed his house after a petition by 30 townspeople (including the Ginoux family) who described him as „le fou roux” (the redheaded madman); Van Gogh returned to hospital. Paul Signac visited him twice in March; in April Van Gogh moved into rooms owned by Dr Rey after floods damaged paintings in his own home. Two months later, he left Arles and voluntarily entered an asylum in Saint-Rémy-de-Provence. Around this time, he wrote, „Sometimes moods of indescribable anguish, sometimes moments when the veil of time and fatality of circumstances seemed to be torn apart for an instant.” Van Gogh entered the Saint-Paul-de-Mausole asylum on 8 May 1889, accompanied by his carer, Frédéric Salles, a Protestant clergyman. Saint-Paul was a former monastery in Saint-Rémy, less than 30 kilometres (19 mi) from Arles, and was run by a former naval doctor, Théophile Peyron. Van Gogh had two cells with barred windows, one of which was to be used as a studio. The clinic and its garden became the main subjects of his paintings. He made several studies of the hospital’s interiors, such as Vestibule of the Asylum and Saint-Rémy (September 1889). Some of his works from this time are characterised by swirls, such as The Starry Night. He was allowed short supervised walks, which led to paintings of cypresses and olive trees, including Olive Trees with the Alpilles in the Background 1889, Cypresses 1889, Cornfield with Cypresses (1889), Country road in Provence by Night (1890). In September 1889 he produced two further versions of Bedroom in Arles. Limited access to life outside the clinic resulted in a shortage of subject matter. Van Gogh was left to work on interpretations of other artist’s paintings, such as Millet’s The Sower and Noonday Rest, as well as variations on his own earlier work. Van Gogh was an admirer of the Realism of Jules Breton, Gustave Courbet and Millet, and he compared his copies to a musician’s interpreting Beethoven. His The Round of the Prisoners (1890) was painted after an engraving by Gustave Doré (1832–1883). Tralbaut suggests that the face of the prisoner in the centre of the painting looking towards the viewer is Van Gogh himself; Jan Hulsker discounts this. Between February and April 1890 Van Gogh suffered a severe relapse. Depressed and unable to bring himself to write, he was still able to paint and draw a little during this time, and he later wrote to Theo that he had made a few small canvases „from memory … reminisces of the North”. Among these was Two Peasant Women Digging in a Snow-Covered Field at Sunset. Hulsker believes that this small group of paintings formed the nucleus of many drawings and study sheets depicting landscapes and figures that Van Gogh worked on during this time. He comments that this short period was the only time that Van Gogh’s illness had a significant effect on his work. Van Gogh asked his mother and his brother to send him drawings and rough work he had done in the early 1880s so he could work on new paintings from his old sketches. Belonging to this period is Sorrowing Old Man („At Eternity’s Gate”), a colour study Hulsker describes as „another unmistakable remembrance of times long past”. His late paintings show an artist at the height of his abilities, according to the art critic Robert Hughes, „longing for concision and grace”. Albert Aurier praised his work in the Mercure de France in January 1890, and described him as „a genius”.In February Van Gogh painted five versions of L’Arlésienne (Madame Ginoux), based on a charcoal sketch Gauguin had produced when she sat for both artists in November 1888. Also in February, Van Gogh was invited by Les XX, a society of avant-garde painters in Brussels, to participate in their annual exhibition. At the opening dinner a Les XX member, Henry de Groux, insulted Van Gogh’s work. Toulouse-Lautrec demanded satisfaction, and Signac declared he would continue to fight for Van Gogh’s honour if Lautrec surrendered. De Groux apologised for the slight and left the group. Later, while Van Gogh’s exhibit was on display with the Artistes Indépendants in Paris, Claude Monet said that his work was the best in the show. After the birth of his nephew, Van Gogh wrote, „I started right away to make a picture for him, to hang in their bedroom, branches of white almond blossom against a blue sky.” In May 1890 Van Gogh left the clinic in Saint-Rémy to move nearer to both Dr Paul Gachet in Auvers-sur-Oise and to Theo. Gachet was an amateur painter and had treated several other artists – Camille Pissarro had recommended him. Van Gogh’s first impression was that Gachet was „iller than I am, it seemed to me, or let’s say just as much.” During his last weeks, at Saint-Rémy, his thoughts returned to „memories of the North”,and several of the approximately 70 oils, painted during as many days in Auvers-sur-Oise, are reminiscent of northern scenes. In June 1890, he painted several portraits of his doctor, including Portrait of Dr Gachet, and his only etching. In each the emphasis is on Gachet’s melancholic disposition. There are other paintings which are probably unfinished, including Thatched Cottages by a Hill. In July, Van Gogh wrote that he had become absorbed „in the immense plain against the hills, boundless as the sea, delicate yellow”. He had first become captivated by the fields in May, when the wheat was young and green. In July he described to Theo „vast fields of wheat under turbulent skies”. He wrote that they represented his „sadness and extreme loneliness”, and that the „canvases will tell you what I cannot say in words, that is, how healthy and invigorating I find the countryside”. Wheatfield with Crows, from July 1890, is a painting Hulsker discusses as being associated with „melancholy and extreme loneliness”. Hulsker identifies seven oil paintings from Auvers that follow the completion of Wheatfield with Crows. On 27 July 1890, aged 37, Van Gogh shot himself in the chest with a 7mm Lefaucheux à broche revolver. There were no witnesses and he died 30 hours after the incident. The shooting may have taken place in the wheat field in which he had been painting, or a local barn. The bullet was deflected by a rib and passed through his chest without doing apparent damage to internal organs – probably stopped by his spine. He was able to walk back to the Auberge Ravoux, where he was attended to by two doctors, but without a surgeon present the bullet could not be removed. The doctors tended to him as best they could, then left him alone in his room, smoking his pipe. The following morning Theo rushed to his brother’s side, finding him in good spirits. But within hours Vincent began to fail, suffering from an untreated infection resulting from the wound. He died in the early hours of 29 July. According to Theo, Vincent’s last words were: „The sadness will last forever”. Van Gogh was buried on 30 July, in the municipal cemetery of Auvers-sur-Oise. The funeral was attended by Theo van Gogh, Andries Bonger, Charles Laval, Lucien Pissarro, Émile Bernard, Julien Tanguy and Paul Gachet, among twenty family, friends and locals. Theo had been ill, and his health began to decline further after his brother’s death. Weak and unable to come to terms with Vincent’s absence, he died on 25 January 1891 at Den Dolder, and was buried in Utrecht. In 1914, Johanna van Gogh-Bonger had Theo’s body exhumed and moved from Utrecht to be re-buried alongside Vincent’s at Auvers-sur-Oise. There have been numerous debates as to the nature of Van Gogh’s illness and its effect on his work, and many retrospective diagnoses have been proposed. The consensus is that Van Gogh had an episodic condition with periods of normal functioning. Perry was the first to suggest bipolar disorder in 1947, and this has been supported by the psychiatrists Hemphill and Blumer. Biochemist Wilfred Arnold has countered that the symptoms are more consistent with acute intermittent porphyria, noting that the popular link between bipolar disorder and creativity might be spurious. Temporal lobe epilepsy with bouts of depression has also been suggested. Whatever the diagnosis, his condition was likely worsened by malnutrition, overwork, insomnia and alcohol. Style and works Artistic development Van Gogh drew and painted with watercolours while at school, but only a few examples survive and the authorship of some has been challenged. When he took up art as an adult, he began at an elementary level. In early 1882, his uncle, Cornelis Marinus, owner of a well-known gallery of contemporary art in Amsterdam, asked for drawings of The Hague. Van Gogh’s work did not live up to expectations. Marinus offered a second commission, specifying the subject matter in detail, but was again disappointed with the result. Van Gogh persevered; he experimented with lighting in his studio using variable shutters, and with different drawing materials. For more than a year he worked on single figures – highly elaborate studies in black and white, which at the time gained him only criticism. Later, they were recognised as early masterpieces. In August 1882 Theo gave Vincent money to buy materials for working en plein air. Vincent wrote that he could now „go on painting with new vigour”. From early 1883 he worked on multi-figure compositions. He had some of them photographed, but when his brother remarked that they lacked liveliness and freshness, he destroyed them and turned to oil painting. Van Gogh turned to well-known Hague School artists like Weissenbruch and Blommers, and received technical advice from them, as well as from painters like De Bock and Van der Weele, both artists of the Hague School’s second generation. When he moved to Nuenen after the period in Drenthe he began several large paintings but destroyed most of them. The Potato Eaters and its companion pieces are the only ones to have survived. Following a visit to the Rijksmuseum, Van Gogh wrote of his admiration for the quick, economical brushwork of the Dutch Masters, especially Rembrandt and Frans Hals. He was aware that many of his faults were due to lack of experience and technical expertise, so in November 1885 he travelled to Antwerp and later Paris to learn and develop his skills. Theo criticised The Potato Eaters for its dark palette, which he thought unsuitable for a modern style. During Van Gogh’s stay in Paris between 1886 and 1887, he tried to master a new, lighter palette. His Portrait of Père Tanguy (1887) shows his success with the brighter palette, and is evidence of an evolving personal style. Charles Blanc’s treatise on colour interested him greatly, and led him to work with complementary colours. Van Gogh came to believe that the effect of colour went beyond the descriptive; he said that „colour expresses something in itself”.According to Hughes, Van Gogh perceived colour as having a „psychological and moral weight”, as exemplified in the garish reds and greens of The Night Cafe, a work he wanted to „express the terrible passions of humanity”.Yellow meant the most to him, because it symbolised emotional truth. He used yellow as a symbol for sunlight, life, and God. Van Gogh strove to be a painter of rural life and nature, and during his first summer in Arles he used his new palette to paint landscapes and traditional rural life. His belief that a power existed behind the natural led him to try to capture a sense of that power, or the essence of nature in his art, sometimes through the use of symbols. His renditions of the sower, at first copied from Jean-François Millet, reflect Van Gogh’s religious beliefs: the sower as Christ sowing life beneath the hot sun. These were themes and motifs he returned to often to rework and develop. His paintings of flowers are filled with symbolism, but rather than use traditional Christian iconography he made up his own, where life is lived under the sun and work is an allegory of life. In Arles, having gained confidence after painting spring blossoms and learning to capture bright sunlight, he was ready to paint The Sower. Van Gogh stayed within what he called the „guise of reality”,and was critical of overly stylised works. He wrote afterwards that the abstraction of Starry Night had gone too far and that reality had „receded too far in the background”.Hughes describes it as a moment of extreme visionary ecstasy: the stars are in a great whirl, reminiscent of Hokusai’s Great Wave, the movement in the heaven above is reflected by the movement of the cypress on the earth below, and the painter’s vision is „translated into a thick, emphatic plasma of paint”. Between 1885 and his death in 1890, Van Gogh appears to have been building an oeuvre, a collection that reflected his personal vision, and could be commercially successful. He was influenced by Blanc’s definition of style, that a true painting required optimal use of colour, perspective and brushstrokes. Van Gogh applied the word „purposeful” to paintings he thought he had mastered, as opposed to those he thought of as studies. He painted many series of studies; most of which were still lifes, many executed as colour experiments or as gifts to friends. The work in Arles contributed considerably to his oeuvre: those he thought the most important from that time were The Sower, Night Cafe, Memory of the Garden in Etten and Starry Night. With their broad brushstrokes, inventive perspectives, colours, contours and designs, these paintings represent the style he sought. Major series Van Gogh’s stylistic developments are usually linked to the periods he spent living in different places across Europe. He was inclined to immerse himself in local cultures and lighting conditions, although he maintained a highly individual visual outlook throughout. His evolution as an artist was slow, and he was aware of his painterly limitations. He moved home often, perhaps to expose himself to new visual stimuli, and through exposure develop his technical skill. Art historian Melissa McQuillan believes the moves also reflect later stylistic changes, and that Van Gogh used the moves to avoid conflict, and as a coping mechanism for when the idealistic artist was faced with the realities of his then current situation. The portraits gave Van Gogh his best opportunity to earn. He believed they were „the only thing in painting that moves me deeply and that gives me a sense of the infinite.” He wrote to his sister that he wished to paint portraits that would endure, and that he would use colour to capture their emotions and character rather than aiming for photographic realism. Those closest to Van Gogh are mostly absent from his portraits; he rarely painted Theo, Van Rappard or Bernard. The portraits of his mother were from photographs. In December 1888 he painted La Berceuse – a figure that he thought as good as his sunflowers. It has a limited palette, varied brushstrokes and simple contours. It appears to be a culmination of portraits of the Roulin family completed in Arles between November and December. The portraits show a shift in style from the fluid, restrained brushstrokes and even surface of Portrait of the Postman to the frenetic style, rough surface, broad brushstrokes and use of a palette knife in Madame Roulin with Baby. Van Gogh created more than 43 self-portraits between 1885 and 1889.[230][note 13] They were usually completed in series, such as those painted in Paris in mid-1887, and continued until shortly before his death. Generally the portraits were studies, created during introspective periods when he was reluctant to mix with others, or when he lacked models, and so painted himself. The self-portraits reflect an unusually high degree of self-scrutiny. Often they were intended to mark important periods in his life, for example the mid-1887 Paris series were painted at the point where he became aware of Claude Monet, Paul Cezanne and Signac. In Self-Portrait with Grey Felt Hat, heavy strains of paint spread outwards across the canvas. It is one of his most renowned self-portraits of that period, „with its highly organized rhythmic brushstrokes, and the novel halo derived from the Neo-Impressionist repertoire was what Van Gogh himself called a ‘purposeful’ canvas”. They contain a wide array of physiognomical representations. Van Gogh’s mental and physical condition is usually apparent; he may appear unkempt, unshaven or with a neglected beard, with deeply sunken eyes, a weak jaw, or having lost teeth. Some show him with full lips, a long face or prominent skull, or sharpened, alert features. His hair may be the usual red, or at times ash coloured. Van Gogh’s gaze is seldom directed at the viewer. The portraits vary in intensity and colour, and in those painted after December 1888 especially, the vivid colours highlight the haggard pallor of his skin. Some depict the artist with a beard, others without. He can be seen with bandages in portraits executed just after he mutilated his ear. In only a few does he depict himself as a painter. Those painted in Saint-Rémy show the head from the right, the side opposite his damaged ear, as he painted himself reflected in his mirror. Van Gogh painted several landscapes with flowers, including roses, lilacs, irises, and sunflowers. Some reflect his interests in the language of colour, and also in Japanese ukiyo-e.[240] There are two series of dying sunflowers. The first was painted in Paris in 1887 and shows flowers lying on the ground. The second set was completed a year later in Arles, and is of bouquets in a vase positioned in early morning light. Both are built from thickly layered paintwork, which, according to the London National Gallery, evoke the „texture of the seed-heads”. In these series, Van Gogh was not preoccupied by his usual interest in filling his paintings with subjectivity and emotion; rather the two series are intended to display his technical skill and working methods to Gauguin, who was about to visit. The 1888 paintings were created during a rare period of optimism for the artist. Vincent wrote to Theo in August 1888, „I’m painting with the gusto of a Marseillais eating bouillabaisse, which won’t surprise you when it’s a question of painting large sunflowers … If I carry out this plan there’ll be a dozen or so panels. The whole thing will therefore be a symphony in blue and yellow. I work on it all these mornings, from sunrise. Because the flowers wilt quickly and it’s a matter of doing the whole thing in one go.” The sunflowers were painted to decorate the walls in anticipation of Gauguin’s visit, and Van Gogh placed individual works around the Yellow House’s guest room in Arles. Gauguin was deeply impressed and later acquired two of the Paris versions. After Gauguin’s departure, Van Gogh imagined the two major versions of the sunflowers as wings of the Berceuse Triptych, and included them in his Les XX in Brussels exhibit. Today the major pieces of the series are among his best known, celebrated for the sickly connotations of the colour yellow and its tie-in with the Yellow House, the expressionism of the brush strokes, and their contrast against often dark backgrounds. Fifteen canvases depict cypresses, a tree he became fascinated with in Arles. He brought life to the trees, which were traditionally seen as emblematic of death. The series of cypresses he began in Arles featured the trees in the distance, as windbreaks in fields; when he was at Saint-Rémy he brought them to the foreground. Vincent wrote to Theo in May 1889: „Cypresses still preoccupy me, I should like to do something with them like my canvases of sunflowers”; he went on to say, „They are beautiful in line and proportion like an Egyptian obelisk.” In mid-1889, and at his sister Wil’s request, Van Gogh painted several smaller versions of Wheat Field with Cypresses. The works are characterised by swirls and densely painted impasto, and include The Starry Night, in which cypresses dominate the foreground. Other works from this period include Olive Trees with the Alpilles in the Background (1889, about which in a letter to his brother Van Gogh wrote, „At last I have a landscape with olives”), Cypresses (1889), Cypresses with Two Figures (1889–90), and Road with Cypress and Star (1890). While in Saint-Rémy, Van Gogh spent time outside the asylum, where he painted trees in the olive groves. In these works natural life is rendered as gnarled and arthritic as if a personification of the natural world, which are, according to Hughes, filled with „a continuous field of energy of which nature is a manifestation”. After Van Gogh’s arrival in Arles in February 1888. The 14 paintings are optimistic, joyous and visually expressive of the burgeoning spring. They are delicately sensitive and unpopulated. He painted swiftly, and although he brought to this series a version of Impressionism, a strong sense of personal style began to emerge during this period. The transience of the blossoming trees, and the passing of the season, seemed to align with his sense of impermanence and belief in a new beginning in Arles. During the blossoming of the trees that spring, he found „a world of motifs that could not have been more Japanese”.Vincent wrote to Theo on 21 April 1888 that he had 10 orchards and „one big [painting] of a cherry tree, which I’ve spoiled”. During this period Van Gogh mastered the use of light by subjugating shadows and painting the trees as if they are the source of light – almost in a sacred manner. Early the following year he painted another smaller group of orchards, including View of Arles, Flowering Orchards. Van Gogh was enthralled by the landscape and vegetation of the south of France, and often visited the farm gardens near Arles. In the vivid light of the Mediterranean climate his palette significantly brightened. Van Gogh made several painting excursions during visits to the landscape around Arles. He made paintings of harvests, wheat fields and other rural landmarks of the area, including The Old Mill (1888); a good example of a picturesque structure bordering the wheat fields beyond. At various points, Van Gogh painted the view from his window – at The Hague, Antwerp, and Paris. These works culminated in The Wheat Field series, which depicted the view from his cells in the asylum at Saint-Rémy. Many of the late paintings are sombre but essentially optimistic and, right up to the time of Van Gogh’s death, reflect his desire to return to lucid mental health. Yet some of his final works reflect his deepening concerns. Writing in July 1890, from Auvers, Van Gogh said that he had become absorbed „in the immense plain against the hills, boundless as the sea, delicate yellow”. Van Gogh was captivated by the fields in May when the wheat was young and green. His Wheatfields at Auvers with White House shows a more subdued palette of yellows and blues, which creates a sense of idyllic harmony. About 10 July 1890 Van Gogh wrote to Theo of „vast fields of wheat under troubled skies”. Wheatfield with Crows shows the artist’s state of mind in his final days; Hulsker describes the work as a „doom-filled painting with threatening skies and ill-omened crows”. Its dark palette and heavy brushstrokes convey a sense of menace. After Van Gogh’s first exhibitions in the late 1880s, his reputation grew steadily among artists, art critics, dealers and collectors. In 1887 André Antoine hung Van Gogh’s alongside works of Georges Seurat and Paul Signac, at the Théâtre Libre in Paris; some were acquired by Julien Tanguy. In 1889 his work was described in the journal Le Moderniste Illustré by Albert Aurier as characterised by „fire, intensity, sunshine”.Ten paintings were shown at the Société des Artistes Indépendants, in Brussels in January 1890. After Van Gogh’s death, memorial exhibitions were held in Brussels, Paris, The Hague and Antwerp. His work was shown in several high-profile exhibitions, including six works at Les XX; in 1891 there was a retrospective exhibition in Brussels. In 1892 Octave Mirbeau wrote that Van Gogh’s suicide was an „infinitely sadder loss for art … even though the populace has not crowded to a magnificent funeral, and poor Vincent van Gogh, whose demise means the extinction of a beautiful flame of genius, has gone to his death as obscure and neglected as he lived.” Theo died in January 1891, removing Vincent’s most vocal and well-connected champion. Theo’s widow Johanna van Gogh-Bonger was a Dutchwoman in her twenties who had not known either her husband or her brother-in law very long and who suddenly had to take care of several hundreds of paintings, letters and drawings, as well as her infant son, Vincent Willem van Gogh. Gauguin was not inclined to offer assistance in promoting Van Gogh’s reputation, and Johanna’s brother Andries Bonger also seemed lukewarm about his work. Aurier, one of Van Gogh’s earliest supporters among the critics, died of typhoid fever in 1892 at the age of twenty-seven. In 1892 Émile Bernard organised a small solo show of Van Gogh’s paintings in Paris, and Julien Tanguy exhibited his Van Gogh paintings with several consigned from Johanna van Gogh-Bonger. In April 1894 the Durand-Rue Gallery in Paris agreed to take 10 paintings on consignment from Van Gogh’s estate. In 1896, the Fauvist painter Henri Matisse, then an unknown art student, visited John Peter Russell on Belle Île off Brittany. Russell had been a close friend of Van Gogh; he introduced Matisse to the Dutchman’s work, and gave him a Van Gogh drawing. Influenced by Van Gogh, Matisse abandoned his earth-coloured palette for bright colours. In Paris in 1901 a large Van Gogh retrospective was held at the Bernheim-Jeune Gallery, which excited André Derain and Maurice de Vlaminck, and contributed to the emergence of Fauvism. Important group exhibitions took place with the Sonderbund artists in Cologne in 1912, the Armory Show, New York in 1913, and Berlin in 1914. Henk Bremmer was instrumental in teaching and talking about Van Gogh, and introduced Helene Kröller-Müller to Van Gogh’s art; she became an avid collector of his work. The early figures in German Expressionism such as Emil Nolde acknowledged a debt to Van Gogh’s work. Bremmer assisted Jacob Baart de la Faille, whose catalogue raisonné L’Oeuvre de Vincent van Gogh appeared in 1928. Van Gogh’s fame reached its first peak in Austria and Germany before World War I, helped by the publication of his letters in three volumes in 1914. His letters are expressive and literate, and have been described as among the foremost 19th-century writings of their kind. These began a compelling mythology of Van Gogh as an intense and dedicated painter who suffered for his art and died young. In 1934 the novelist Irving Stone published an account of Van Gogh’s life titled Lust for Life, based on Van Gogh’s letters to Theo. This book and the 1956 film of the same name further enhanced his fame. In 1957 Francis Bacon based a series of paintings on reproductions of Van Gogh’s The Painter on the Road to Tarascon, the original of which was destroyed during the Second World War. Bacon was inspired by an image he described as „haunting”, and regarded Van Gogh as an alienated outsider, a position which resonated with him. Bacon identified with Van Gogh’s theories of art and quoted lines written to Theo: „[R]eal painters do not paint things as they are … They paint them as they themselves feel them to be.” Van Gogh’s works are among the world’s most expensive paintings. Those sold for over US$100 million (today’s equivalent) include Portrait of Dr Gachet, Portrait of Joseph Roulin and Irises. The Metropolitan Museum of Art’s version of Wheat Field with Cypresses was acquired in 1993 for US$57 million. In 2015 L’Allée des Alyscamps sold for US$66.3 million at Sotheby’s, New York, exceeding its reserve of US$40 million. Van Gogh Museum Van Gogh’s nephew and namesake, Vincent Willem van Gogh (1890–1978), inherited the estate after his mother’s death in 1925. During the early 1950s he arranged for the publication of a complete edition of the letters presented in four volumes and several languages. He then began negotiations with the Dutch government to subsidise a foundation to purchase and house the entire collection. Theo’s son participated in planning the project in the hope that the works would be exhibited under the best possible conditions. The project began in 1963; architect Gerrit Rietveld was commissioned to design it, and after his death in 1964 Kisho Kurokawa took charge. Work progressed throughout the 1960s, with 1972 as the target for its grand opening. The Van Gogh Museum opened in the Museumplein in Amsterdam in 1973. It became the second most popular museum in the Netherlands, after the Rijksmuseum, regularly receiving more than 1.5 million visitors a year. In 2015 it had a record 1.9 million; 85 percent of the visitors come from other countries. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upbXc6HgVh0 FOTO: Vincent van Gogh Written by: Constantin Enache Biography Sylvie Guillem (born 25 February 1965) is a French ballet dancer. Guillem was the top-ranking female dancer with the Paris Opera Ballet from 1984 to 1989, before becoming a principal guest artist with the Royal Ballet in London. She has performed contemporary dance as an Associate Artist of London’s Sadler’s Wells Theatre. Her most notable performances have included those in Giselle and in Rudolf Nureyev’s stagings of Swan Lake and Don Quixote. In November 2014, she announced her retirement from the stage in 2015. Early life Guillem was born on 25 February 1965 in Paris. As a child, she trained in gymnastics under the instruction of her mother, a gymnastics teacher. In 1977 at age 11, she began training at the Paris Opera Ballet School where Claude Bessy, then director of the school, immediately noticed her exceptional capacities and potential, and in 1981 at age 16, she joined the company’s corps de ballet. Initially she hated dancing, preferring gymnastics, but after taking part in her show she found she loved performing. Career In 1983 Guillem won the gold medal at the Varna International Ballet Competition, which later in the year earned her her first solo role, dancing the Queen of the Dryads in Rudolf Nureyev’s staging of Don Quixote. In December 1984, after her performance in Nureyev’s Swan Lake, she became the Paris Opera Ballet’s youngest-ever étoile, the company’s top-ranking female dancer. In 1987 she performed the lead role in William Forsythe’s contemporary ballet In the Middle, Somewhat Elevated with one of her favourite partners, Laurent Hilaire. In 1988 she was given the title role in a production of Giselle staged by the Royal Ballet to celebrate Nureyev’s 50th birthday. Her performance was a success, and in the following year she left Paris for London, to become a freelance performer and one of the Royal Ballet’s principal guest artists. Her desire to work independently from a company gained her the nickname „Mademoiselle Non”. In 1995 Guillem created the dance television program, Evidentia, which won several international awards. In 1998 she staged her own version of Giselle for the Finnish National Ballet, and in 2001 restaged the ballet for La Scala Ballet in Milan. In 2001 she became the first winner of the Nijinsky Prize for the world’s best ballerina, although in her acceptance speech she criticised the „supermarket culture” of such awards. In the same year, she controversially appeared nude and without make-up in a photo-shoot for French Vogue. In 2003 she directed the central section of a Nureyev tribute program, but was criticised for having the dancers perform in front of a giant projected backdrop of Nureyev, which the audience found distracting. By 2006 she had moved from ballet to contemporary dance, working with such performers as Akram Khan as an Associate Artist of the Sadler’s Wells Theatre in London. In March 2015 Guillem embarked on an international farewell tour titled Life in Progress, featuring works by Khan, Russell Maliphant, Mats Ek and Forsythe.The tour concluded in Japan, and she gave her final performance live on Japanese television on 31 December 2015, performing Maurice Béjart’s Boléro as the clock counted down to midnight. Repertoire Guillem’s repertoire includes Giselle (Giselle), Swan Lake (Odette/Odile), Don Quixote (Kitri), In the Middle, Somewhat Elevated, Romeo and Juliet (Juliet), The Sleeping Beauty (Aurora), Boléro, Cinderella, Notre-Dame de Paris, Raymonda, La Bayadère (Nikiya and Gamzatti), Fall River Legend, Prince of the Pagodas (Princess Rose), Hermann Schmermann, Le Martyre de Saint-Sébastien, and Sacred Monsters (with Akram Khan). Personal life As of 2006, Guillem was in a long-term relationship with photographer Gilles Tapie. She is a supporter of environmental group Sea Shepherd. She is a total vegetarian, saying, „I do not want any animal to die for me”. Awards 1983 : Gold medal at the Varna International Ballet Competition 1984 : Prix du Cercle Carpeaux (Paris) 1988 : Andersen Prize (Copenhagen), Grand Prix national de danse (Paris), Commandeur of the Arts et Lettres (Paris) 1989 : Grand Prix Pavlova 1993 : Médaille de Vermeil de la Ville de Paris 1994 : Prix Benois de la Danse 1994 : Chevalier of the Légion d’honneur 1999 : Officier of the Ordre national du Mérite 2000 : Gente Dame of honor of the Hospitaliers de Pomerol 2001 : Prix Nijinski 2003 : Honorary Commander of the Order of the British Empire 2009 : Officier of the Légion d’honneur 2012 : Golden Lion for Lifetime Achievement, from the Biennale Danza of Venice 2015 : Praemium Imperiale, Tokyo 2015 : Society of London Theatre Special Award 2016 : Critics’ Circle National Dance Award: De Valois Award for outstanding achievements FOTO: Sylvie Guillem Written by: Constantin Enache Sylvie Guillem (born 25 February 1965) is a French ballet dancer. Guillem was the top-ranking female dancer with the Paris Opera Ballet from 1984 to 1989, before becoming a principal guest artist with the Royal Ballet in London. She has performed contemporary dance as an Associate Artist of London’s Sadler’s Wells Theatre. Her most notable performances have included those in Giselle and in Rudolf Nureyev’s stagings of Swan Lake and Don Quixote. In November 2014, she announced her retirement from the stage in 2015. Guillem was born on 25 February 1965 in Paris. As a child, she trained in gymnastics under the instruction of her mother, a gymnastics teacher. In 1977 at age 11, she began training at the Paris Opera Ballet School where Claude Bessy, then director of the school, immediately noticed her exceptional capacities and potential, and in 1981 at age 16, she joined the company’s corps de ballet. Initially she hated dancing, preferring gymnastics, but after taking part in her show she found she loved performing. In 1983 Guillem won the gold medal at the Varna International Ballet Competition, which later in the year earned her her first solo role, dancing the Queen of the Dryads in Rudolf Nureyev’s staging of Don Quixote. In December 1984, after her performance in Nureyev’s Swan Lake, she became the Paris Opera Ballet’s youngest-ever étoile, the company’s top-ranking female dancer. In 1987 she performed the lead role in William Forsythe’s contemporary ballet In the Middle, Somewhat Elevated with one of her favourite partners, Laurent Hilaire. In 1988 she was given the title role in a production of Giselle staged by the Royal Ballet to celebrate Nureyev’s 50th birthday. Her performance was a success, and in the following year she left Paris for London, to become a freelance performer and one of the Royal Ballet’s principal guest artists. Her desire to work independently from a company gained her the nickname „Mademoiselle Non”. In 1995 Guillem created the dance television program, Evidentia, which won several international awards. In 1998 she staged her own version of Giselle for the Finnish National Ballet, and in 2001 restaged the ballet for La Scala Ballet in Milan. In 2001 she became the first winner of the Nijinsky Prize for the world’s best ballerina, although in her acceptance speech she criticised the „supermarket culture” of such awards. In the same year, she controversially appeared nude and without make-up in a photo-shoot for French Vogue. In 2003 she directed the central section of a Nureyev tribute program, but was criticised for having the dancers perform in front of a giant projected backdrop of Nureyev, which the audience found distracting. By 2006 she had moved from ballet to contemporary dance, working with such performers as Akram Khan as an Associate Artist of the Sadler’s Wells Theatre in London. In March 2015 Guillem embarked on an international farewell tour titled Life in Progress, featuring works by Khan, Russell Maliphant, Mats Ek and Forsythe.The tour concluded in Japan, and she gave her final performance live on Japanese television on 31 December 2015, performing Maurice Béjart’s Boléro as the clock counted down to midnight. Guillem’s repertoire includes Giselle (Giselle), Swan Lake (Odette/Odile), Don Quixote (Kitri), In the Middle, Somewhat Elevated, Romeo and Juliet (Juliet), The Sleeping Beauty (Aurora), Boléro, Cinderella, Notre-Dame de Paris, Raymonda, La Bayadère (Nikiya and Gamzatti), Fall River Legend, Prince of the Pagodas (Princess Rose), Hermann Schmermann, Le Martyre de Saint-Sébastien, and Sacred Monsters (with Akram Khan). Personal life As of 2006, Guillem was in a long-term relationship with photographer Gilles Tapie. She is a supporter of environmental group Sea Shepherd. She is a total vegetarian, saying, „I do not want any animal to die for me”. 1983 : Gold medal at the Varna International Ballet Competition 1984 : Prix du Cercle Carpeaux (Paris) 1988 : Andersen Prize (Copenhagen), Grand Prix national de danse (Paris), Commandeur of the Arts et Lettres (Paris) 1989 : Grand Prix Pavlova 1993 : Médaille de Vermeil de la Ville de Paris 1994 : Prix Benois de la Danse 1994 : Chevalier of the Légion d’honneur 1999 : Officier of the Ordre national du Mérite 2000 : Gente Dame of honor of the Hospitaliers de Pomerol 2001 : Prix Nijinski 2003 : Honorary Commander of the Order of the British Empire 2009 : Officier of the Légion d’honneur 2012 : Golden Lion for Lifetime Achievement, from the Biennale Danza of Venice 2015 : Praemium Imperiale, Tokyo 2015 : Society of London Theatre Special Award 2016 : Critics’ Circle National Dance Award: De Valois Award for outstanding achievements FOTO: Sylvie Guillem Written by: Constantin Enache Biography Maurice Béjart (1 January 1927 – 22 November 2007) was a French-born dancer, choreographer and opera director who ran the Béjart Ballet Lausanne in Switzerland. He was awarded Swiss citizenship posthumously. Maurice-Jean Berger was born in Marseille, France in 1927, the son of French philosopher Gaston Berger. Fascinated by a recital of Serge Lifar, he decided to devote himself entirely to dance. In South France days, he had studied under Mathilde Kschessinska. Career In 1945, he enrolled as a corps de ballet at the Opéra de Marseille. From 1946, he had studied under Madam Rousanne (Sarkissian), Léo Staats, Madam Lyubov Yegorova and Olga Preobrajenska at „Studio Wacker”, etc. in Paris. In 1948, he was also formed with Janine Charrat, Yvette Chauviré and then with Roland Petit, in addition he had studied under Vera Volkova at London. In 1954, he founded the Ballet de l’Étoile company (dissolved in 1957). In 1960 he founded the Ballet du XXe Siècle in Brussels (dissolved in 1987). In 1987 he moved to Lausanne in Switzerland, where he founded the Béjart Ballet Lausanne, one of the most famous and successful dance companies in the world. In 1973, with the Ballet du XXe siecle, he premiered „Golestan”, on a poem by Sa’di, based on Iranian traditional music. The ballet was commissioned by the Shiraz-Persepolis Festival of Arts where it was premiered. The first performance of „Improvisation sur Mallarme III” with music by Boulez also took place at that Festival in 1973. „Farah”, also based on Iranian traditional music was the Ballet’s own commission, premiered in Brussels in 1976 and brought to the Shiraz-Perspolis Festival that same year. The 1976 Festival also witnessed the first performance of „Heliogabalus”, based on a poem by Artaud. The Festival’s patron was Farah Pahlavi, the former Empress of Iran, with whom Béjart kept strong ties to the end. Béjart received the Deutscher Tanzpreis in 1994. Among his works is a thoroughly revised version of The Nutcracker, presumably inspired by his own life story, which he staged in 2000. It still uses Tchaikovsky’s original score, but completely scraps the original plot and characters, instead supplying a new story about a boy’s efforts to re-connect with his mother. We also are given a look into the boy’s strange sexual fantasies. The production design is full of erotic images — some of which are most likely shocking to many, such as wombs and vaginal openings. One of the characters is Marius Petipa, who becomes Mephisto. Another character is called Felix the Cat, presumably after the famous cartoon character. The production has been issued on DVD. Bolero One of Béjart’s masterpiece works of dance was choreography he set to French composer Maurice Ravel’s „Boléro.” In The New York Times, Jennifer Dunning described Béjart’s „Bolero” as „probably his best known and most popular dance.” Created in 1960 for the Yugoslav ballerina Duška Sifnios, the dance features a dancer on a tabletop, surrounded by seated men, who slowly participate in the dance, culminating in a climactic union of the dancers atop the table. Amongst the dancers, who would later perform Béjart’s interpretation of „Bolero,” include Sylvie Guillem from the Paris Opera Ballet, Grazia Galante, Maya Plisetskaya, and Angele Albrecht. In a twist, Jorge Donn also played the role of the principal dancer, becoming the first male to do so. One of Donn’s such performances can be seen in French filmmaker Claude Lelouch’s 1981 musical epic, Les Uns et les Autres. Dance schools Béjart was the founder of several dance schools: the Mudra School in Brussels, 1970–1988; the Mudra Afrique School in Dakar, 1977–1985; the Rudra School in Lausanne, 1992–present. The Rudra School is still open and is one of the most famous professional dance schools in the world. In 1996, Béjart has directed a workshop for professionals at the Teatro Comunale di Ferrara and among students was Paolo Franzato, performer and director among the most appreciated in Italy. Awards During his lifetime, Béjart received many awards and distinctions for his contributions to the arts. He received the Japanese Order of the Rising Sun. He received the Belgian Ordre de la Couronne. In 1974, he won the Erasmus Prize. In 1994, he was appointed to the Académie des Beaux Arts. In 2003, he was appointed Commandeur des Arts et des Lettres. In 2003, he won the Prix Benois de la Danse for lifetime achievement. Filmography 1975: Je suis né à Venise with Jorge Donn, Shonah Mirk, Philippe Lison and Barbara. FOTO: Maurice Béjart Written by: Constantin Enache Maurice Béjart (1 January 1927 – 22 November 2007) was a French-born dancer, choreographer and opera director who ran the Béjart Ballet Lausanne in Switzerland. He was awarded Swiss citizenship posthumously. Maurice-Jean Berger was born in Marseille, France in 1927, the son of French philosopher Gaston Berger. Fascinated by a recital of Serge Lifar, he decided to devote himself entirely to dance. In South France days, he had studied under Mathilde Kschessinska. In 1945, he enrolled as a corps de ballet at the Opéra de Marseille. From 1946, he had studied under Madam Rousanne (Sarkissian), Léo Staats, Madam Lyubov Yegorova and Olga Preobrajenska at „Studio Wacker”, etc. in Paris. In 1948, he was also formed with Janine Charrat, Yvette Chauviré and then with Roland Petit, in addition he had studied under Vera Volkova at London. In 1954, he founded the Ballet de l’Étoile company (dissolved in 1957). In 1960 he founded the Ballet du XXe Siècle in Brussels (dissolved in 1987). In 1987 he moved to Lausanne in Switzerland, where he founded the Béjart Ballet Lausanne, one of the most famous and successful dance companies in the world. In 1973, with the Ballet du XXe siecle, he premiered „Golestan”, on a poem by Sa’di, based on Iranian traditional music. The ballet was commissioned by the Shiraz-Persepolis Festival of Arts where it was premiered. The first performance of „Improvisation sur Mallarme III” with music by Boulez also took place at that Festival in 1973. „Farah”, also based on Iranian traditional music was the Ballet’s own commission, premiered in Brussels in 1976 and brought to the Shiraz-Perspolis Festival that same year. The 1976 Festival also witnessed the first performance of „Heliogabalus”, based on a poem by Artaud. The Festival’s patron was Farah Pahlavi, the former Empress of Iran, with whom Béjart kept strong ties to the end. Béjart received the Deutscher Tanzpreis in 1994. Among his works is a thoroughly revised version of The Nutcracker, presumably inspired by his own life story, which he staged in 2000. It still uses Tchaikovsky’s original score, but completely scraps the original plot and characters, instead supplying a new story about a boy’s efforts to re-connect with his mother. We also are given a look into the boy’s strange sexual fantasies. The production design is full of erotic images — some of which are most likely shocking to many, such as wombs and vaginal openings. One of the characters is Marius Petipa, who becomes Mephisto. Another character is called Felix the Cat, presumably after the famous cartoon character. The production has been issued on DVD. One of Béjart’s masterpiece works of dance was choreography he set to French composer Maurice Ravel’s „Boléro.” In The New York Times, Jennifer Dunning described Béjart’s „Bolero” as „probably his best known and most popular dance.” Created in 1960 for the Yugoslav ballerina Duška Sifnios, the dance features a dancer on a tabletop, surrounded by seated men, who slowly participate in the dance, culminating in a climactic union of the dancers atop the table. Amongst the dancers, who would later perform Béjart’s interpretation of „Bolero,” include Sylvie Guillem from the Paris Opera Ballet, Grazia Galante, Maya Plisetskaya, and Angele Albrecht. In a twist, Jorge Donn also played the role of the principal dancer, becoming the first male to do so. One of Donn’s such performances can be seen in French filmmaker Claude Lelouch’s 1981 musical epic, Les Uns et les Autres. Dance schools Béjart was the founder of several dance schools: the Mudra School in Brussels, 1970–1988; the Mudra Afrique School in Dakar, 1977–1985; the Rudra School in Lausanne, 1992–present. The Rudra School is still open and is one of the most famous professional dance schools in the world. In 1996, Béjart has directed a workshop for professionals at the Teatro Comunale di Ferrara and among students was Paolo Franzato, performer and director among the most appreciated in Italy. During his lifetime, Béjart received many awards and distinctions for his contributions to the arts. He received the Japanese Order of the Rising Sun. He received the Belgian Ordre de la Couronne. In 1974, he won the Erasmus Prize. In 1994, he was appointed to the Académie des Beaux Arts. In 2003, he was appointed Commandeur des Arts et des Lettres. In 2003, he won the Prix Benois de la Danse for lifetime achievement. Filmography 1975: Je suis né à Venise with Jorge Donn, Shonah Mirk, Philippe Lison and Barbara. FOTO: Maurice Béjart Written by: Constantin Enache Biography Alvin Ailey (January 5, 1931 – December 1, 1989) was an African-American choreographer and activist who founded the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater in New York City. He is credited with popularizing modern dance and revolutionizing African-American participation in 20th-century concert dance. His company gained the nickname „Cultural Ambassador to the World” because of its extensive international touring. Ailey’s choreographic masterpiece Revelations is believed to be the best known and most often seen modern dance performance. In 1977, Ailey was awarded the Spingarn Medal from the NAACP. He received the Kennedy Center Honors in 1988. In 2014, President Barack Obama selected Ailey to be a posthumous recipient of the Presidential Medal of Freedom. Early years Ailey was born to his 17-year-old mother, Lula Elizabeth Ailey, in Rogers, Texas. His father, also named Alvin, abandoned the family when Alvin was only six months old. Like many African Americans living in Texas during the Great Depression, Ailey and his mother moved often and had a hard time finding work. Ailey grew up during a time of racial segregation, violence and lynchings against African Americans. Early experiences in the Southern Baptist church and juke joints instilled in him a fierce sense of black pride that would later figure prominently in Ailey’s signature works. In the fall of 1942, Ailey’s mother, in common with many African Americans, migrated to Los Angeles, California, where she heard of lucrative work supporting the war effort. Ailey, aged 11, joined his mother later by train, having stayed behind in Texas to finish out the school year. Ailey’s first junior high school in California was located in a primarily white school district. As one of the few black students, Ailey felt out of place because of his fear of whites, so the Aileys moved to a predominantly black school district. He matriculated at George Washington Carver Junior High School, and later attended the Thomas Jefferson High School. He sang spirituals in the glee club, wrote poetry, and demonstrated a talent for languages. He regularly attended shows at Lincoln Theater and the Orpheum Theater. Ailey did not become serious about dance until in 1949 his school friend Carmen De Lavallade introduced him to the Hollywood studio of Lester Horton. Horton would prove to be Ailey’s major influence, becoming a mentor and giving him both a technique and a foundation with which to grow artistically. Horton’s school taught a wide range of dance styles and techniques, including classical ballet, jazz, and Native American dance. Alvin quickly fell in love with dance. Horton’s school was also the first multi-racial dance school in the United States. Ailey was, at first, ambivalent about becoming a professional dancer. He had studied Romance languages at various universities in California, but was restless, academically, and took courses as well in the writings of James Baldwin, Langston Hughes, and Carson McCullers. He moved to San Francisco to continue his studies in 1951. There, he met Marguerite Johnson, who later changed her name to Maya Angelou. They occasionally performed a nightclub act called „Al and Rita”. Ailey earned a living waiting tables and dancing at the New Orleans Champagne Supper Club. Eventually, he returned to study dance with Horton in southern California. The Horton Dance Company He was introduced to the company through Carmen, a lifelong friend. At the age of 22 Ailey began full-time study at Horton’s school. He joined Horton’s company in 1953, making his debut in Horton’s Revue Le Bal Caribe. It was during this period that Ailey performed in several Hollywood films. Like all of Horton’s students, Ailey studied other art forms, including painting, acting, music, set design, and costuming, as well as ballet and other forms of modern and ethnic dance. When Horton died in November 1953 the tragedy left the company without an artistic director. The company had outstanding contracts that required and desired new works. When no one else stepped forward, Ailey assumed the role of artistic director. Despite his youth and lack of experience (Ailey was only 22 years old and had choreographed only one dance in a workshop) he began choreographing, directing scene and costume designs, and running rehearsal and he also directed one of the shows for the company. New York In 1954, he and his friend Carmen De Lavallade were invited to New York to dance in the Broadway show, House of Flowers by Truman Capote, starring Pearl Bailey and Diahann Carroll. He also appeared in Sing, Man, Sing (1956, starring Harry Belafonte) and in Jamaica (1957) with Lena Horne and Ricardo Montalbán. The New York modern dance scene in the fifties was not to Ailey’s taste. He observed the classes of modern dance contemporaries such as Martha Graham, Doris Humphrey, and José Limón. He felt Graham’s dancing „finicky and strange” and disliked the techniques of both Humphrey and Limón. Ailey expressed disappointment at not being able to find a technique similar to Horton’s. Not finding a mentor, he began creating works of his own. Alvin Ailey Dance Theater Ailey formed his own group, Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, in 1958. The group presented its inaugural concert on March 30, 1958. Notable early work included Blues Suite, a piece deriving from blues songs. Ailey’s choreography was a dynamic and vibrant mix growing out of his previous training in ballet, modern dance, jazz, and African dance techniques. Ailey insisted upon a complete theatrical experience, including costumes, lighting, and make-up. A work of intense emotional appeal expressing the pain and anger of African Americans, Blues Suite was an instant success and defined Ailey’s style. For his signature work, Revelations, Ailey drew upon his „blood memories” of Texas, the blues, spirituals, and gospel. These forces resulted in the creation of his most popular and critically acclaimed work. Ailey originally intended the dance to be the second part of a larger, evening-length survey of African-American music which he began with Blues Suite. Although Ailey created 79 works for his dancers, he maintained that his company was not merely a showcase for his own work. Today, the company continues Ailey’s vision by performing important works from the past and commissioning new additions to the repertoire. In all, more than 200 works by over 70 choreographers have been performed by the company. Ailey was proud that his company was multi-racial. While he wanted to give opportunities to black dancers, who were frequently excluded from performances by racist attitudes at the time, he also wanted to rise above issues of negritude. His company always employed artists based solely on artistic talent and integrity regardless of their race. Ailey continued to create work for his own company and also choreographed for other companies. In 1962 the U.S. State Department sponsored the Alvin Ailey Dance Company’s first overseas tour. Ailey was suspicious of his government benefactors’ motives. He suspected they were propagandistic, seeking to advertise a false tolerance by showcasing a modern Negro dance group. In 1970, Ailey was honored by a commission to create The River for the American Ballet Theatre (ABT). He viewed The River, which he based on the music of composer Duke Ellington, as a chance to work with some of the finest ballet dancers in the world, particularly with the great dramatic ballerina Sallie Wilson. The ABT, however, insisted that the leading male role be danced by the only black man in the company, despite misgivings by Ailey and others about the dancer’s talent. Cry (1971) was one of Ailey’s greatest successes. He dedicated it to his mother and black women everywhere. It became a signature piece for Judith Jamison. The Alvin Ailey Dance Theater was constructed by Tishman Realty and Construction Corporation of New York, Manhattan’s largest builder. Technique Ailey made use of any combination of dance techniques that best suited the theatrical moment. Valuing eclecticism, he created more a dance style than a technique. He said that what he wanted from a dancer was a long, unbroken leg line and deftly articulated legs and feet („a ballet bottom”) combined with a dramatically expressive upper torso („a modern top”). „What I like is the line and technical range that classical ballet gives to the body. But I still want to project to the audience the expressiveness that only modern dance offers, especially for the inner kinds of things.” Ailey’s dancers came to his company with training from a variety of other schools, from ballet to modern and jazz and later hip-hop. He was unique in that he did not train his dancers in a specific technique before they performed his choreography. He approached his dancers more in the manner of a jazz conductor, requiring them to infuse his choreography with a personal style that best suited their individual talents. This openness to input from dancers heralded a paradigm shift that brought concert dance into harmony with other forms of African-American expression, including big band jazz. In 1992 Alvin Ailey was inducted into the National Museum of Dance’s Mr. & Mrs. Cornelius Vanderbilt Whitney Hall of Fame in Saratoga Springs, NY. Personal life Ailey kept his life as a dancer a secret from his mother for the first two years. Ailey died on December 1, 1989 at the age of 58. To spare his mother the social stigma of his death from HIV/AIDS, he asked his doctor to announce that he had died of terminal blood dyscrasia. Choreography Cinco Latinos, Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre, Kaufmann Concert Hall, New York City, 1958. Blues Suite (also see below), Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre,Kaufmann Concert Hall, 1958. Revelations, Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre, Kaufmann ConcertHall, 1960 Three for Now, Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre, Clark Center, New York City, 1960. Knoxville: Summer of 1915, Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre, Clark Center, 1960. (With Carmen De Lavallade) Roots of the Blues, Lewisohn Stadium, New York City, 1961. Hermit Songs, Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C., 1963. Ariadne, Harkness Ballet, Opera Comique, Paris, 1965. Macumba, Harkness Ballet, Gran Teatro del Liceo, Barcelona, Spain,1966, then produced as Yemanja, Chicago Opera House, 1967. Quintet, Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre, Church Hill Theatre, Edinburgh Festival, Scotland, 1968, then Billy Rose Theatre, New York City, 1969. Masekela Langage, Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre, American Dance Festival, New London, Connecticut, 1969, then Brooklyn Academy of Music, New York City, 1969. Streams (also see below), Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre, Brooklyn Academy of Music, 1970. Gymnopedies, Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre, Brooklyn Academy of Music, 1970. The River, American Ballet Theatre, New York State Theater, 1970. Flowers, Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre, ANTA Theatre, 1971. Myth, Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre, New York City Center, 1971. Choral Dances, Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre, New York City Center, 1971. Cry, Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre, New York City Center, 1971. Mingus Dances, Robert Joffrey Company, New York City Center, 1971. Mary Lou’s Mass, Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre, New York City Center, 1971. Song for You, Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre, New York City Center, 1972. The Lark Ascending, Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre, New York City Center, 1972. Love Songs, Alvin Ailey City Center Dance Theater, New York City Center, 1972. Shaken Angels, 10th New York Dance Festival, Delacorte Theatre, New York City, 1972. Sea Change, American Ballet Theatre, Kennedy Center Opera House, Washington, D.C., 1972, then New York City Center, 1973. Hidden Rites, Alvin Ailey City Center Dance Theater, New York City Center, 1973. Archipelago, 1971, The Mooche, 1975, Night Creature, 1975, Pas de „Duke”, 1976, Memoria, 1979, Phases, 1980 Landscape, 1981. Acting and dancing (Broadway debut) House of Flowers, Alvin Theatre, New York City, 1954 – Actor and dancer. The Carefree Tree, 1955 – Actor and dancer. Sing, Man, Sing, 1956 – Actor and dancer. Show Boat, Marine Theatre, Jones Beach, New York, 1957 – Actor and dancer. Jamaica, Imperial Theatre, New York City, 1957 – Actor and lead dance. Call Me By My Rightful Name, One Sheridan Square Theatre, 1961 – Paul. Ding Dong Bell, Westport Country Playhouse, 1961 – Negro Political Leader. Blackstone Boulevard, Talking to You, produced as double-bill in 2 by Saroyan, East End Theatre, New York City, 1961-62. Tiger, Tiger, Burning Bright, Booth Theatre, 1962 – Clarence Morris. Stage choreography Carmen Jones, Theatre in the Park, 1959. Jamaica, Music Circus, Lambertville, New Jersey, 1959. Dark of the Moon, Lenox Hill Playhouse, 1960. (And director) African Holiday (musical), Apollo Theatre, New York City, 1960, then produced at Howard Theatre, Washington, D.C., 1960. Feast of Ashes (ballet), Robert Joffrey Company, Teatro San Carlos, Lisbon, Portugal, 1962, then produced at New York City Center, 1971. Antony and Cleopatra, Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, New York City, 1966. La Strada, first produced at Lunt-Fontanne Theatre, 1969. (With others) Mass, Metropolitan Opera House, 1972, then John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, Washington, D.C., and Philadelphia Academy of Music, both 1972. Carmen, Metropolitan Opera, 1972. Choreographed ballet, Lord Byron (opera; also see below), Juilliard School of Music, New York City, 1972. Four Saints in Three Acts, Piccolo Met, New York City, 1973. Director (With William Hairston) Jerico-Jim Crow, The Sanctuary, New York City, 1964, then Greenwich Mews Theatre, 1968. Film Film appearances (Film debut) Dancer, Lydia Bailey, Twentieth-Century Fox, 1952 Dancer, Carmen Jones, Twentieth-Century Fox, 1954 Film choreography Choreographer (with others), The Turning Point, Twentieth-Century Fox, 1977. Television Dancer (with Horton Company), Party at Ciro’s (also see below), 1954. Dancer (with Horton Company), Red Skelton Show (also see below), CBS, 1954. (With Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre) Dave Garroway Today Show, NBC, 1959. (With Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre) Look Up and Live, CBS, 1962. (With Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre) Camera Three, CBS, 1962-63. America’s Tribute to Bob Hope, NBC, 1988. A Duke Named Ellington (also known as American Masters), PBS, 1988. The Kennedy Center Honors: A Celebration of the Performing Arts, CBS, 1988. 16th Annual Black Filmmakers Hall of Fame, syndicated, 1989. Bill Cosby Salutes Alvin Ailey, NBC, 1989. Television choreography[edit] The Jack Benny Show, CBS, 1954. Red Skelton Show, CBS, 1954. Parade, CBC, 1964. Alvin Ailey: Memories and Visions, PBS, 1974. „Blues Suite”, Three by Three, PBS, 1985. „Revelations”, The Kennedy Center Honors: A Celebration of the Performing Arts, CBS, 1988. „Revelations”, Bill Cosby Salutes Alvin Ailey, NBC, 1989. „For Bird – With Love”, Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, Steps Ahead, PBS, 1991. Also contributed choreography for Party at Ciro’s, 1954. Choreographed Ailey Celebrates Ellington, 1974 and 1976, Solo for Mingus, 1979, and Memoria, 1979. Adaptations Blues Suite, Masekela Langage, Streams, and the ballet of Lord Byron have been filmed. Tributes In 2012 Ailey was inducted into the Legacy Walk, an outdoor public display which celebrates LGBT history and people. A crater on Mercury is named for him as well. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LZuBFz6WYfs Portrait of African-American choreographer, dancer and activist (and founder of the American Dance Theater) Alvin Ailey, New York City, New York, 1975. (Photo by Afro American Newspapers/Gado/Getty Images) FOTO: Alvin Ailey Written by: Constantin Enache Alvin Ailey (January 5, 1931 – December 1, 1989) was an African-American choreographer and activist who founded the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater in New York City. He is credited with popularizing modern dance and revolutionizing African-American participation in 20th-century concert dance. His company gained the nickname „Cultural Ambassador to the World” because of its extensive international touring. Ailey’s choreographic masterpiece Revelations is believed to be the best known and most often seen modern dance performance. In 1977, Ailey was awarded the Spingarn Medal from the NAACP. He received the Kennedy Center Honors in 1988. In 2014, President Barack Obama selected Ailey to be a posthumous recipient of the Presidential Medal of Freedom. Early years Ailey was born to his 17-year-old mother, Lula Elizabeth Ailey, in Rogers, Texas. His father, also named Alvin, abandoned the family when Alvin was only six months old. Like many African Americans living in Texas during the Great Depression, Ailey and his mother moved often and had a hard time finding work. Ailey grew up during a time of racial segregation, violence and lynchings against African Americans. Early experiences in the Southern Baptist church and juke joints instilled in him a fierce sense of black pride that would later figure prominently in Ailey’s signature works. In the fall of 1942, Ailey’s mother, in common with many African Americans, migrated to Los Angeles, California, where she heard of lucrative work supporting the war effort. Ailey, aged 11, joined his mother later by train, having stayed behind in Texas to finish out the school year. Ailey’s first junior high school in California was located in a primarily white school district. As one of the few black students, Ailey felt out of place because of his fear of whites, so the Aileys moved to a predominantly black school district. He matriculated at George Washington Carver Junior High School, and later attended the Thomas Jefferson High School. He sang spirituals in the glee club, wrote poetry, and demonstrated a talent for languages. He regularly attended shows at Lincoln Theater and the Orpheum Theater. Ailey did not become serious about dance until in 1949 his school friend Carmen De Lavallade introduced him to the Hollywood studio of Lester Horton. Horton would prove to be Ailey’s major influence, becoming a mentor and giving him both a technique and a foundation with which to grow artistically. Horton’s school taught a wide range of dance styles and techniques, including classical ballet, jazz, and Native American dance. Alvin quickly fell in love with dance. Horton’s school was also the first multi-racial dance school in the United States. Ailey was, at first, ambivalent about becoming a professional dancer. He had studied Romance languages at various universities in California, but was restless, academically, and took courses as well in the writings of James Baldwin, Langston Hughes, and Carson McCullers. He moved to San Francisco to continue his studies in 1951. There, he met Marguerite Johnson, who later changed her name to Maya Angelou. They occasionally performed a nightclub act called „Al and Rita”. Ailey earned a living waiting tables and dancing at the New Orleans Champagne Supper Club. Eventually, he returned to study dance with Horton in southern California. The Horton Dance Company He was introduced to the company through Carmen, a lifelong friend. At the age of 22 Ailey began full-time study at Horton’s school. He joined Horton’s company in 1953, making his debut in Horton’s Revue Le Bal Caribe. It was during this period that Ailey performed in several Hollywood films. Like all of Horton’s students, Ailey studied other art forms, including painting, acting, music, set design, and costuming, as well as ballet and other forms of modern and ethnic dance. When Horton died in November 1953 the tragedy left the company without an artistic director. The company had outstanding contracts that required and desired new works. When no one else stepped forward, Ailey assumed the role of artistic director. Despite his youth and lack of experience (Ailey was only 22 years old and had choreographed only one dance in a workshop) he began choreographing, directing scene and costume designs, and running rehearsal and he also directed one of the shows for the company. In 1954, he and his friend Carmen De Lavallade were invited to New York to dance in the Broadway show, House of Flowers by Truman Capote, starring Pearl Bailey and Diahann Carroll. He also appeared in Sing, Man, Sing (1956, starring Harry Belafonte) and in Jamaica (1957) with Lena Horne and Ricardo Montalbán. The New York modern dance scene in the fifties was not to Ailey’s taste. He observed the classes of modern dance contemporaries such as Martha Graham, Doris Humphrey, and José Limón. He felt Graham’s dancing „finicky and strange” and disliked the techniques of both Humphrey and Limón. Ailey expressed disappointment at not being able to find a technique similar to Horton’s. Not finding a mentor, he began creating works of his own. Alvin Ailey Dance Theater Ailey formed his own group, Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, in 1958. The group presented its inaugural concert on March 30, 1958. Notable early work included Blues Suite, a piece deriving from blues songs. Ailey’s choreography was a dynamic and vibrant mix growing out of his previous training in ballet, modern dance, jazz, and African dance techniques. Ailey insisted upon a complete theatrical experience, including costumes, lighting, and make-up. A work of intense emotional appeal expressing the pain and anger of African Americans, Blues Suite was an instant success and defined Ailey’s style. For his signature work, Revelations, Ailey drew upon his „blood memories” of Texas, the blues, spirituals, and gospel. These forces resulted in the creation of his most popular and critically acclaimed work. Ailey originally intended the dance to be the second part of a larger, evening-length survey of African-American music which he began with Blues Suite. Although Ailey created 79 works for his dancers, he maintained that his company was not merely a showcase for his own work. Today, the company continues Ailey’s vision by performing important works from the past and commissioning new additions to the repertoire. In all, more than 200 works by over 70 choreographers have been performed by the company. Ailey was proud that his company was multi-racial. While he wanted to give opportunities to black dancers, who were frequently excluded from performances by racist attitudes at the time, he also wanted to rise above issues of negritude. His company always employed artists based solely on artistic talent and integrity regardless of their race. Ailey continued to create work for his own company and also choreographed for other companies. In 1962 the U.S. State Department sponsored the Alvin Ailey Dance Company’s first overseas tour. Ailey was suspicious of his government benefactors’ motives. He suspected they were propagandistic, seeking to advertise a false tolerance by showcasing a modern Negro dance group. In 1970, Ailey was honored by a commission to create The River for the American Ballet Theatre (ABT). He viewed The River, which he based on the music of composer Duke Ellington, as a chance to work with some of the finest ballet dancers in the world, particularly with the great dramatic ballerina Sallie Wilson. The ABT, however, insisted that the leading male role be danced by the only black man in the company, despite misgivings by Ailey and others about the dancer’s talent. Cry (1971) was one of Ailey’s greatest successes. He dedicated it to his mother and black women everywhere. It became a signature piece for Judith Jamison. The Alvin Ailey Dance Theater was constructed by Tishman Realty and Construction Corporation of New York, Manhattan’s largest builder. Ailey made use of any combination of dance techniques that best suited the theatrical moment. Valuing eclecticism, he created more a dance style than a technique. He said that what he wanted from a dancer was a long, unbroken leg line and deftly articulated legs and feet („a ballet bottom”) combined with a dramatically expressive upper torso („a modern top”). „What I like is the line and technical range that classical ballet gives to the body. But I still want to project to the audience the expressiveness that only modern dance offers, especially for the inner kinds of things.” Ailey’s dancers came to his company with training from a variety of other schools, from ballet to modern and jazz and later hip-hop. He was unique in that he did not train his dancers in a specific technique before they performed his choreography. He approached his dancers more in the manner of a jazz conductor, requiring them to infuse his choreography with a personal style that best suited their individual talents. This openness to input from dancers heralded a paradigm shift that brought concert dance into harmony with other forms of African-American expression, including big band jazz. In 1992 Alvin Ailey was inducted into the National Museum of Dance’s Mr. & Mrs. Cornelius Vanderbilt Whitney Hall of Fame in Saratoga Springs, NY. Personal life Ailey kept his life as a dancer a secret from his mother for the first two years. Ailey died on December 1, 1989 at the age of 58. To spare his mother the social stigma of his death from HIV/AIDS, he asked his doctor to announce that he had died of terminal blood dyscrasia. Choreography Cinco Latinos, Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre, Kaufmann Concert Hall, New York City, 1958. Blues Suite (also see below), Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre,Kaufmann Concert Hall, 1958. Revelations, Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre, Kaufmann ConcertHall, 1960 Three for Now, Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre, Clark Center, New York City, 1960. Knoxville: Summer of 1915, Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre, Clark Center, 1960. (With Carmen De Lavallade) Roots of the Blues, Lewisohn Stadium, New York City, 1961. Hermit Songs, Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C., 1963. Ariadne, Harkness Ballet, Opera Comique, Paris, 1965. Macumba, Harkness Ballet, Gran Teatro del Liceo, Barcelona, Spain,1966, then produced as Yemanja, Chicago Opera House, 1967. Quintet, Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre, Church Hill Theatre, Edinburgh Festival, Scotland, 1968, then Billy Rose Theatre, New York City, 1969. Masekela Langage, Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre, American Dance Festival, New London, Connecticut, 1969, then Brooklyn Academy of Music, New York City, 1969. Streams (also see below), Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre, Brooklyn Academy of Music, 1970. Gymnopedies, Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre, Brooklyn Academy of Music, 1970. The River, American Ballet Theatre, New York State Theater, 1970. Flowers, Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre, ANTA Theatre, 1971. Myth, Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre, New York City Center, 1971. Choral Dances, Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre, New York City Center, 1971. Cry, Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre, New York City Center, 1971. Mingus Dances, Robert Joffrey Company, New York City Center, 1971. Mary Lou’s Mass, Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre, New York City Center, 1971. Song for You, Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre, New York City Center, 1972. The Lark Ascending, Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre, New York City Center, 1972. Love Songs, Alvin Ailey City Center Dance Theater, New York City Center, 1972. Shaken Angels, 10th New York Dance Festival, Delacorte Theatre, New York City, 1972. Sea Change, American Ballet Theatre, Kennedy Center Opera House, Washington, D.C., 1972, then New York City Center, 1973. Hidden Rites, Alvin Ailey City Center Dance Theater, New York City Center, 1973. Archipelago, 1971, The Mooche, 1975, Night Creature, 1975, Pas de „Duke”, 1976, Memoria, 1979, Phases, 1980 Landscape, 1981. Acting and dancing (Broadway debut) House of Flowers, Alvin Theatre, New York City, 1954 – Actor and dancer. The Carefree Tree, 1955 – Actor and dancer. Sing, Man, Sing, 1956 – Actor and dancer. Show Boat, Marine Theatre, Jones Beach, New York, 1957 – Actor and dancer. Jamaica, Imperial Theatre, New York City, 1957 – Actor and lead dance. Call Me By My Rightful Name, One Sheridan Square Theatre, 1961 – Paul. Ding Dong Bell, Westport Country Playhouse, 1961 – Negro Political Leader. Blackstone Boulevard, Talking to You, produced as double-bill in 2 by Saroyan, East End Theatre, New York City, 1961-62. Tiger, Tiger, Burning Bright, Booth Theatre, 1962 – Clarence Morris. Stage choreography Carmen Jones, Theatre in the Park, 1959. Jamaica, Music Circus, Lambertville, New Jersey, 1959. Dark of the Moon, Lenox Hill Playhouse, 1960. (And director) African Holiday (musical), Apollo Theatre, New York City, 1960, then produced at Howard Theatre, Washington, D.C., 1960. Feast of Ashes (ballet), Robert Joffrey Company, Teatro San Carlos, Lisbon, Portugal, 1962, then produced at New York City Center, 1971. Antony and Cleopatra, Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, New York City, 1966. La Strada, first produced at Lunt-Fontanne Theatre, 1969. (With others) Mass, Metropolitan Opera House, 1972, then John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, Washington, D.C., and Philadelphia Academy of Music, both 1972. Carmen, Metropolitan Opera, 1972. Choreographed ballet, Lord Byron (opera; also see below), Juilliard School of Music, New York City, 1972. Four Saints in Three Acts, Piccolo Met, New York City, 1973. (With William Hairston) Jerico-Jim Crow, The Sanctuary, New York City, 1964, then Greenwich Mews Theatre, 1968. Film appearances (Film debut) Dancer, Lydia Bailey, Twentieth-Century Fox, 1952 Dancer, Carmen Jones, Twentieth-Century Fox, 1954 Film choreography Choreographer (with others), The Turning Point, Twentieth-Century Fox, 1977. Dancer (with Horton Company), Party at Ciro’s (also see below), 1954. Dancer (with Horton Company), Red Skelton Show (also see below), CBS, 1954. (With Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre) Dave Garroway Today Show, NBC, 1959. (With Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre) Look Up and Live, CBS, 1962. (With Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre) Camera Three, CBS, 1962-63. America’s Tribute to Bob Hope, NBC, 1988. A Duke Named Ellington (also known as American Masters), PBS, 1988. The Kennedy Center Honors: A Celebration of the Performing Arts, CBS, 1988. 16th Annual Black Filmmakers Hall of Fame, syndicated, 1989. Bill Cosby Salutes Alvin Ailey, NBC, 1989. Television choreography[edit] The Jack Benny Show, CBS, 1954. Red Skelton Show, CBS, 1954. Parade, CBC, 1964. Alvin Ailey: Memories and Visions, PBS, 1974. „Blues Suite”, Three by Three, PBS, 1985. „Revelations”, The Kennedy Center Honors: A Celebration of the Performing Arts, CBS, 1988. „Revelations”, Bill Cosby Salutes Alvin Ailey, NBC, 1989. „For Bird – With Love”, Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, Steps Ahead, PBS, 1991. Also contributed choreography for Party at Ciro’s, 1954. Choreographed Ailey Celebrates Ellington, 1974 and 1976, Solo for Mingus, 1979, and Memoria, 1979. Adaptations Blues Suite, Masekela Langage, Streams, and the ballet of Lord Byron have been filmed. In 2012 Ailey was inducted into the Legacy Walk, an outdoor public display which celebrates LGBT history and people. A crater on Mercury is named for him as well. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LZuBFz6WYfs Portrait of African-American choreographer, dancer and activist (and founder of the American Dance Theater) Alvin Ailey, New York City, New York, 1975. (Photo by Afro American Newspapers/Gado/Getty Images) Portrait of African-American choreographer, dancer and activist (and founder of the American Dance Theater) Alvin Ailey, New York City, New York, 1975. (Photo by Afro American Newspapers/Gado/Getty Images) Portrait of African-American choreographer, dancer and activist (and founder of the American Dance Theater) Alvin Ailey, New York City, New York, 1975. (Photo by Afro American Newspapers/Gado/Getty Images) Portrait of African-American choreographer, dancer and activist (and founder of the American Dance Theater) Alvin Ailey, New York City, New York, 1975. (Photo by Afro American Newspapers/Gado/Getty Images) Portrait of African-American choreographer, dancer and activist (and founder of the American Dance Theater) Alvin Ailey, New York City, New York, 1975. (Photo by Afro American Newspapers/Gado/Getty Images) FOTO: Alvin Ailey Written by: Constantin Enache