Source: https://bachelor-nation.fandom.com/wiki/Dale_Moss
Title: Dale Moss | Bachelor Nation Wiki | Fandom
Words: 2697

================================================================================

in: Males, 1988 Births, First Impression Rose, and 3 more Winners South Dakota Multiple appearances Dale Moss Sign in to edit History Purge Talk (0) in: Males, 1988 Births, First Impression Rose, and 3 more Winners South Dakota Multiple appearances in: Males, 1988 Births, First Impression Rose, and 3 more Winners South Dakota Multiple appearances in: Males, 1988 Births, First Impression Rose, and 3 more Winners South Dakota Multiple appearances and 3 more Winners South Dakota Multiple appearances Winners South Dakota Multiple appearances South Dakota Multiple appearances Dale Moss Sign in to edit History Purge Talk (0) Sign in to edit History Purge Talk (0) History Purge Talk (0) History Purge Talk (0) Dale Moss was a contestant on the 16th season of The Bachelorette, where he got engaged to Clare Crawley. He returned for the 10th season of Bachelor in Paradise. He was eliminated with Katherine Izzo in week 10. Personal life[] He met Clare Crawley on the 16th season of The Bachelorette. After meeting during the limo entrances, Clare stated that she "thought she had just met her husband". They got engaged in week 3. "Yeah, it's wild right? That we're here right now, but I've said this before, from the moment I stepped out of the limo, this was special. And I know you and I, we both felt it immediately and there was absolutely no denying it. You made it so clear and apparent that every at phase of this that you believed in us, you believed in you and I, and I know without a shadow of a doubt that you would go to the end of the world for me and I've never had that and I'm so grateful for that. And you talked about strength and compassion and how you saw that in me, similar to your father and that meant everything. You know I wanna be here for you, I wanna be strong, I want you to feel protected and I want nothing more than to keep moving forward, to be there for you each and every day. And you know, I thought a lot about, you know, my mother and what she would think of you and she would absolutely love you and all she's ever wanted for me is someone who just loves me unconditionally and who would be there for me, no matter what. I mean, I know that I have that and I love you and I'm so appreciative for you and the best is yet to come - I'm not going anywhere and I want to make you happy each and every day, so with that being said, I'm gonna do it. I'm doing it. Clare, will you marry me?" - Dale proposing to Clare He announced their split on January 19, 2021. They reconciled shortly after, but broke up for good in September 2021. He met Katherine Izzo on the 10th season of Bachelor in Paradise. They did not get engaged on the show, but left in a relationship. Biography[] Retrieved from abc.com Dale is a small town boy with big dreams of making an impact on the world. His mother passed away at a young age; but before her death, Dale says she taught him to always follow his passions and that nothing is impossible if you work hard. After playing D1 football and basketball at South Dakota State, Dale spent four years playing in the NFL before stepping away to move to New York and pursue a career in consulting for sports wellness and lifestyle brands. When asked what his greatest achievement is to date, Dale says, “I’m living it!” Now, all he’s just missing is a woman to share his success with. Dale is looking for a woman who wants him but doesn’t need him and says that nothing turns him on more than an independent woman with strong convictions. When Dale is feeling passionate, he doesn’t like to hold back and is looking for a woman who won’t be turned off by his intensity. Dale says one thing he has not mastered yet is patience. Will he be able to wait his turn to make a move on Clare or will he come in hot for all the right reasons? Gallery[] Bachelorette 16Bachelorette 16Limo arrival.First impression rose.Dale proposing to Clare.Clare's ring from Dale.After the Final RoseBachelor in Paradise 101/8 Dale Moss was a contestant on the 16th season of The Bachelorette, where he got engaged to Clare Crawley. He returned for the 10th season of Bachelor in Paradise. He was eliminated with Katherine Izzo in week 10. Personal life[] He met Clare Crawley on the 16th season of The Bachelorette. After meeting during the limo entrances, Clare stated that she "thought she had just met her husband". They got engaged in week 3. "Yeah, it's wild right? That we're here right now, but I've said this before, from the moment I stepped out of the limo, this was special. And I know you and I, we both felt it immediately and there was absolutely no denying it. You made it so clear and apparent that every at phase of this that you believed in us, you believed in you and I, and I know without a shadow of a doubt that you would go to the end of the world for me and I've never had that and I'm so grateful for that. And you talked about strength and compassion and how you saw that in me, similar to your father and that meant everything. You know I wanna be here for you, I wanna be strong, I want you to feel protected and I want nothing more than to keep moving forward, to be there for you each and every day. And you know, I thought a lot about, you know, my mother and what she would think of you and she would absolutely love you and all she's ever wanted for me is someone who just loves me unconditionally and who would be there for me, no matter what. I mean, I know that I have that and I love you and I'm so appreciative for you and the best is yet to come - I'm not going anywhere and I want to make you happy each and every day, so with that being said, I'm gonna do it. I'm doing it. Clare, will you marry me?" - Dale proposing to Clare He announced their split on January 19, 2021. They reconciled shortly after, but broke up for good in September 2021. He met Katherine Izzo on the 10th season of Bachelor in Paradise. They did not get engaged on the show, but left in a relationship. Biography[] Retrieved from abc.com Dale is a small town boy with big dreams of making an impact on the world. His mother passed away at a young age; but before her death, Dale says she taught him to always follow his passions and that nothing is impossible if you work hard. After playing D1 football and basketball at South Dakota State, Dale spent four years playing in the NFL before stepping away to move to New York and pursue a career in consulting for sports wellness and lifestyle brands. When asked what his greatest achievement is to date, Dale says, “I’m living it!” Now, all he’s just missing is a woman to share his success with. Dale is looking for a woman who wants him but doesn’t need him and says that nothing turns him on more than an independent woman with strong convictions. When Dale is feeling passionate, he doesn’t like to hold back and is looking for a woman who won’t be turned off by his intensity. Dale says one thing he has not mastered yet is patience. Will he be able to wait his turn to make a move on Clare or will he come in hot for all the right reasons? Gallery[] Bachelorette 16Bachelorette 16Limo arrival.First impression rose.Dale proposing to Clare.Clare's ring from Dale.After the Final RoseBachelor in Paradise 101/8 Dale Moss was a contestant on the 16th season of The Bachelorette, where he got engaged to Clare Crawley. He returned for the 10th season of Bachelor in Paradise. He was eliminated with Katherine Izzo in week 10. Personal life[] He met Clare Crawley on the 16th season of The Bachelorette. After meeting during the limo entrances, Clare stated that she "thought she had just met her husband". They got engaged in week 3. "Yeah, it's wild right? That we're here right now, but I've said this before, from the moment I stepped out of the limo, this was special. And I know you and I, we both felt it immediately and there was absolutely no denying it. You made it so clear and apparent that every at phase of this that you believed in us, you believed in you and I, and I know without a shadow of a doubt that you would go to the end of the world for me and I've never had that and I'm so grateful for that. And you talked about strength and compassion and how you saw that in me, similar to your father and that meant everything. You know I wanna be here for you, I wanna be strong, I want you to feel protected and I want nothing more than to keep moving forward, to be there for you each and every day. And you know, I thought a lot about, you know, my mother and what she would think of you and she would absolutely love you and all she's ever wanted for me is someone who just loves me unconditionally and who would be there for me, no matter what. I mean, I know that I have that and I love you and I'm so appreciative for you and the best is yet to come - I'm not going anywhere and I want to make you happy each and every day, so with that being said, I'm gonna do it. I'm doing it. Clare, will you marry me?" - Dale proposing to Clare He announced their split on January 19, 2021. They reconciled shortly after, but broke up for good in September 2021. He met Katherine Izzo on the 10th season of Bachelor in Paradise. They did not get engaged on the show, but left in a relationship. Biography[] Retrieved from abc.com Dale is a small town boy with big dreams of making an impact on the world. His mother passed away at a young age; but before her death, Dale says she taught him to always follow his passions and that nothing is impossible if you work hard. After playing D1 football and basketball at South Dakota State, Dale spent four years playing in the NFL before stepping away to move to New York and pursue a career in consulting for sports wellness and lifestyle brands. When asked what his greatest achievement is to date, Dale says, “I’m living it!” Now, all he’s just missing is a woman to share his success with. Dale is looking for a woman who wants him but doesn’t need him and says that nothing turns him on more than an independent woman with strong convictions. When Dale is feeling passionate, he doesn’t like to hold back and is looking for a woman who won’t be turned off by his intensity. Dale says one thing he has not mastered yet is patience. Will he be able to wait his turn to make a move on Clare or will he come in hot for all the right reasons? Gallery[] Bachelorette 16Bachelorette 16Limo arrival.First impression rose.Dale proposing to Clare.Clare's ring from Dale.After the Final RoseBachelor in Paradise 101/8 Dale Moss was a contestant on the 16th season of The Bachelorette, where he got engaged to Clare Crawley. He returned for the 10th season of Bachelor in Paradise. He was eliminated with Katherine Izzo in week 10. Personal life[] He met Clare Crawley on the 16th season of The Bachelorette. After meeting during the limo entrances, Clare stated that she "thought she had just met her husband". They got engaged in week 3. "Yeah, it's wild right? That we're here right now, but I've said this before, from the moment I stepped out of the limo, this was special. And I know you and I, we both felt it immediately and there was absolutely no denying it. You made it so clear and apparent that every at phase of this that you believed in us, you believed in you and I, and I know without a shadow of a doubt that you would go to the end of the world for me and I've never had that and I'm so grateful for that. And you talked about strength and compassion and how you saw that in me, similar to your father and that meant everything. You know I wanna be here for you, I wanna be strong, I want you to feel protected and I want nothing more than to keep moving forward, to be there for you each and every day. And you know, I thought a lot about, you know, my mother and what she would think of you and she would absolutely love you and all she's ever wanted for me is someone who just loves me unconditionally and who would be there for me, no matter what. I mean, I know that I have that and I love you and I'm so appreciative for you and the best is yet to come - I'm not going anywhere and I want to make you happy each and every day, so with that being said, I'm gonna do it. I'm doing it. Clare, will you marry me?" - Dale proposing to Clare He announced their split on January 19, 2021. They reconciled shortly after, but broke up for good in September 2021. He met Katherine Izzo on the 10th season of Bachelor in Paradise. They did not get engaged on the show, but left in a relationship. Biography[] Retrieved from abc.com Dale is a small town boy with big dreams of making an impact on the world. His mother passed away at a young age; but before her death, Dale says she taught him to always follow his passions and that nothing is impossible if you work hard. After playing D1 football and basketball at South Dakota State, Dale spent four years playing in the NFL before stepping away to move to New York and pursue a career in consulting for sports wellness and lifestyle brands. When asked what his greatest achievement is to date, Dale says, “I’m living it!” Now, all he’s just missing is a woman to share his success with. Dale is looking for a woman who wants him but doesn’t need him and says that nothing turns him on more than an independent woman with strong convictions. When Dale is feeling passionate, he doesn’t like to hold back and is looking for a woman who won’t be turned off by his intensity. Dale says one thing he has not mastered yet is patience. Will he be able to wait his turn to make a move on Clare or will he come in hot for all the right reasons? Bachelorette 16Bachelorette 16Limo arrival.First impression rose.Dale proposing to Clare.Clare's ring from Dale.After the Final RoseBachelor in Paradise 101/8 Bachelorette 16Bachelorette 16Limo arrival.First impression rose.Dale proposing to Clare.Clare's ring from Dale.After the Final RoseBachelor in Paradise 101/8 Bachelorette 16Bachelorette 16Limo arrival.First impression rose.Dale proposing to Clare.Clare's ring from Dale.After the Final RoseBachelor in Paradise 10 Bachelorette 16 Bachelorette 16 Bachelorette 16 Bachelorette 16 Bachelorette 16 Bachelorette 16 Limo arrival. Limo arrival. Limo arrival. First impression rose. First impression rose. First impression rose. Dale proposing to Clare. Dale proposing to Clare. Dale proposing to Clare. Clare's ring from Dale. Clare's ring from Dale. Clare's ring from Dale. After the Final Rose After the Final Rose After the Final Rose Bachelor in Paradise 10 Bachelor in Paradise 10 Bachelor in Paradise 10 Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted.