Source: https://conradbrunstrom.wordpress.com/2020/07/26/otd-in-1745-the-first-newspaper-report-of-womens-cricket-match-was-published/
Title: OTD in 1745, the first newspaper report of women’s cricket match was published. | conradbrunstrom
Words: 2015

================================================================================

Tags Cricket, eighteenth-century OTD in 1745, the first newspaper report of women’s cricket match was published. July 26, 2020 This isn’t the match. This is a much later match, played in 1779 involving the Countess of Derby and her friends. Anyhow, The Reading Mercury is the newspaper that can claim to have first reported on a women’s cricket match back in 1745. It was not, of course, the first women’s cricket match. Women must have been playing all sorts of matches long long before newspapers saw fit to report the fact. Besides which, even allowing for predictably patronising language, it’s clear that these women were good at cricket and had therefore played it to a high standard for a number of years: “The greatest cricket match that was played in this part of England was on Friday, the 26th of last month, on Gosden Common, near Guildford, between eleven maids of Bramley and eleven maids of Hambledon, all dressed in white. The Bramley maids had blue ribbons and the Hambledon maids red ribbons on their heads. The Bramley girls got 119 notches and the Hambledon girls 127. There was of bothe sexes the greatest number that ever was seen on such an occasion. The girls bowled, batted, ran and catched as well as most men could do in that game.” Hambledon was, of course, the greatest cricket club of the eighteenth-century. “Notches” was the usual way of describing runs as the “scorer” would literally score a notch in a piece of wood ever time what we would call a run was scored. This womens’ match was obviously well organised and well advertised if the crowd was larger than any cricketing crowd the Guildford area could remember. Illustrations of women’s cricket in the eighteenth-century run to two very opposite extremes, based very much on class. The Countess of Derby did not play for the entertainment of large crowds of spectators. Hers was a discrete form of recreation behind high walls. If you were to believe illustrators such as Thomas Rowlandson, then more plebian eighteenth-century women’s cricket was a raucous communal celebration of rough and tumble and exposed flesh. (You shouldn’t always believe Thomas Rowlandson.) The level of organisation demonstrated in 1745 would have been impossible without that constant factor in all forms of eighteenth-century sport – gambling. The crowd that came to see Bramley versus Hambledon did not just come to leer. Many of them would have staked money on the outcome. Indeed, such was the centrality of gambling to the sport that games between mismatched sides were often an impossibility, and a team like Hambledon would often have to be handicapped (sometimes fielding fewer players), if they ever wanted to get a game. But still, today is a significant anniversary in the history of women’s sport being taken (relatively) seriously by the media. A milestone, if you will. But there’s another question. What was the Reading Mercury doing reporting on a match in Surrey – 28 miles away – a century before the railways could have made it practical to get back and forth between Reading and Guildford in a day? One can only assume that this contest achieved something like larger regional importance, to the extent that news of it spread across many counties? There may have been other published accounts of this game which have not survived. Thank you Reading Mercury. Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Like Loading. Related From → Uncategorized Tags Cricket, eighteenth-century OTD in 1745, the first newspaper report of women’s cricket match was published. July 26, 2020 Tags Cricket, eighteenth-century Cricket, eighteenth-century OTD in 1745, the first newspaper report of women’s cricket match was published. July 26, 2020 This isn’t the match. This is a much later match, played in 1779 involving the Countess of Derby and her friends. Anyhow, The Reading Mercury is the newspaper that can claim to have first reported on a women’s cricket match back in 1745. It was not, of course, the first women’s cricket match. Women must have been playing all sorts of matches long long before newspapers saw fit to report the fact. Besides which, even allowing for predictably patronising language, it’s clear that these women were good at cricket and had therefore played it to a high standard for a number of years: “The greatest cricket match that was played in this part of England was on Friday, the 26th of last month, on Gosden Common, near Guildford, between eleven maids of Bramley and eleven maids of Hambledon, all dressed in white. The Bramley maids had blue ribbons and the Hambledon maids red ribbons on their heads. The Bramley girls got 119 notches and the Hambledon girls 127. There was of bothe sexes the greatest number that ever was seen on such an occasion. The girls bowled, batted, ran and catched as well as most men could do in that game.” Hambledon was, of course, the greatest cricket club of the eighteenth-century. “Notches” was the usual way of describing runs as the “scorer” would literally score a notch in a piece of wood ever time what we would call a run was scored. This womens’ match was obviously well organised and well advertised if the crowd was larger than any cricketing crowd the Guildford area could remember. Illustrations of women’s cricket in the eighteenth-century run to two very opposite extremes, based very much on class. The Countess of Derby did not play for the entertainment of large crowds of spectators. Hers was a discrete form of recreation behind high walls. If you were to believe illustrators such as Thomas Rowlandson, then more plebian eighteenth-century women’s cricket was a raucous communal celebration of rough and tumble and exposed flesh. (You shouldn’t always believe Thomas Rowlandson.) The level of organisation demonstrated in 1745 would have been impossible without that constant factor in all forms of eighteenth-century sport – gambling. The crowd that came to see Bramley versus Hambledon did not just come to leer. Many of them would have staked money on the outcome. Indeed, such was the centrality of gambling to the sport that games between mismatched sides were often an impossibility, and a team like Hambledon would often have to be handicapped (sometimes fielding fewer players), if they ever wanted to get a game. But still, today is a significant anniversary in the history of women’s sport being taken (relatively) seriously by the media. A milestone, if you will. But there’s another question. What was the Reading Mercury doing reporting on a match in Surrey – 28 miles away – a century before the railways could have made it practical to get back and forth between Reading and Guildford in a day? One can only assume that this contest achieved something like larger regional importance, to the extent that news of it spread across many counties? There may have been other published accounts of this game which have not survived. Thank you Reading Mercury. Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Like Loading. Related This isn’t the match. This is a much later match, played in 1779 involving the Countess of Derby and her friends. Anyhow, The Reading Mercury is the newspaper that can claim to have first reported on a women’s cricket match back in 1745. It was not, of course, the first women’s cricket match. Women must have been playing all sorts of matches long long before newspapers saw fit to report the fact. Besides which, even allowing for predictably patronising language, it’s clear that these women were good at cricket and had therefore played it to a high standard for a number of years: “The greatest cricket match that was played in this part of England was on Friday, the 26th of last month, on Gosden Common, near Guildford, between eleven maids of Bramley and eleven maids of Hambledon, all dressed in white. The Bramley maids had blue ribbons and the Hambledon maids red ribbons on their heads. The Bramley girls got 119 notches and the Hambledon girls 127. There was of bothe sexes the greatest number that ever was seen on such an occasion. The girls bowled, batted, ran and catched as well as most men could do in that game.” Hambledon was, of course, the greatest cricket club of the eighteenth-century. “Notches” was the usual way of describing runs as the “scorer” would literally score a notch in a piece of wood ever time what we would call a run was scored. This womens’ match was obviously well organised and well advertised if the crowd was larger than any cricketing crowd the Guildford area could remember. Illustrations of women’s cricket in the eighteenth-century run to two very opposite extremes, based very much on class. The Countess of Derby did not play for the entertainment of large crowds of spectators. Hers was a discrete form of recreation behind high walls. If you were to believe illustrators such as Thomas Rowlandson, then more plebian eighteenth-century women’s cricket was a raucous communal celebration of rough and tumble and exposed flesh. (You shouldn’t always believe Thomas Rowlandson.) The level of organisation demonstrated in 1745 would have been impossible without that constant factor in all forms of eighteenth-century sport – gambling. The crowd that came to see Bramley versus Hambledon did not just come to leer. Many of them would have staked money on the outcome. Indeed, such was the centrality of gambling to the sport that games between mismatched sides were often an impossibility, and a team like Hambledon would often have to be handicapped (sometimes fielding fewer players), if they ever wanted to get a game. But still, today is a significant anniversary in the history of women’s sport being taken (relatively) seriously by the media. A milestone, if you will. But there’s another question. What was the Reading Mercury doing reporting on a match in Surrey – 28 miles away – a century before the railways could have made it practical to get back and forth between Reading and Guildford in a day? One can only assume that this contest achieved something like larger regional importance, to the extent that news of it spread across many counties? There may have been other published accounts of this game which have not survived. Thank you Reading Mercury. Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Like Loading. Related Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Like Loading. Like Loading. From → Uncategorized From → Uncategorized One Comment cobrunstrom permalink Reblogged this on conradbrunstrom. Reply One Comment cobrunstrom permalink Reblogged this on conradbrunstrom. Reply cobrunstrom permalink Reblogged this on conradbrunstrom. Reply cobrunstrom permalink Reblogged this on conradbrunstrom. Leave a comment Cancel reply Δ Leave a comment Cancel reply « The Plot Against America… and toxic Folksiness. Perhaps the audience is the “hero”… 1917 – belatedly reviewed. » « The Plot Against America… and toxic Folksiness. Perhaps the audience is the “hero”… 1917 – belatedly reviewed. »