Source: https://anisshakur.tripod.com/id128.html
Title: Rahat Kazmi
Words: 4974

================================================================================

Rahat Kazmi Show business Show business Rahat Kazmi Rahat Kazmi Rahat Kazmi: Won with his strength By Anis Shakur Oh God! Give me the ability to change the things I can, and the courage to bear the things I can’t, and the wisdom to know the difference. The above statement holds true to the television great, Rahat Kazmi. From movie actor to television artist, from critic to talk- show host, from speaker to academician, and from teacher to social thinker, Rahat has proved resourceful, ingenious and pioneering in the past forty-one years. Rahat Kazmi was born on June 30, 1946, in Simla, India. Rahat’s father was a lawyer by profession, and he wanted his son to follow his footsteps. Rahat completed his high school education in Rawalpindi. He successfully completed and received his law degree in Lahore. Additionally, Rahat received his master’s degree in political science from Government college and a master’s degree in English literature from Punjab university. Rahat started his working life as an information officer in 1968 in the Pakistani civil services. After serving for eight years, Rahat resigned from the civil services in 1976. Rahat’s profound love of acting took him irresistibly to the forefront of Pakistani entertainment. Rahat’s first stab at acting came when he was studying for his Bachelors in Government college, Lahore. Likewise, Rahat’s first Lahore television appearance was in 1965 when he participated in a university program. In 1967, Rahat took part in a Rawalpindi television quiz show known as ‘Mayaar.’ Further, Rahat lent a well-balanced and modulated performance in the 1967 Rawalpindi television play ‘Goonge.’ Furthermore, Rahat’s meritocracy of work is quite evident in the television play ‘Koltar,’ opposite Nayyar Kamal. Rahat’s un bowing perseverance and industriousness led to one success after another. The popular television play ‘Anarkali,’ is one such success story. Highly sophisticated artists like Rahat made the Pakistani television where it is today. Reverting to Rahat’s performance, the television play ‘Auraaq,’ was a formidable achievement. The playwright, Fatima Surraiya Bajia, crafted a brilliant play. The habit of translating novels for the television drama serials gives Rahat the greatest ability of dramatization. Rahat’s sumptuous television version of the Russian novel, ‘Fathers and sons,’ by Ivan Turgenev, is a case in point. ‘Fathers and sons’ Urdu version, ‘Qurbatain aur faaslay,’ was telecast from the Rawalpindi television in 1974. Rahat was super smartly dubbed as Ghazanfar or ‘Bazarov,’ in the novel, and Sahira was smartly dubbed as ‘Aaliya.’ In the play, ‘Ghazanfar’ was a medical science student. He fell in love with ‘Aaliya,’ but did not wanted to admit it. Because his extreme views on women prevented him from doing so. He appeared so charismatic and filled his vivid character with enormous emotional power as well. Bad luck, Ghazanfar’s untimely, tragic demise due to typhus makes it a very heartfelt play. Amazingly enough, Rahat married Sahira soon after ‘Qurbatain aur faaslay,’ was telecast over television in 1974. Both their children, a son and a daughter, are very intelligent like their parents. Most importantly, Rahat teamed up with the best people, who made him look good by helping him display more of the full range of his acting talents. Talking of his acting career, Rahat was instrumental in the mega hit television drama serial, ‘Teesra kinara.’ Rahat also used to be the talk-show host in ‘Rahat Kazmi show,’ telecast in the 1970s from the Pakistani television. Essentially, Rahat is an adornment to the Pakistani television. Add to all this is an intelligent wit, a gaiety and verve that are inexhaustible. In his show business career, which spans to forty-one years, Rahat has acted in numerous television plays. Foremost is his sweeping drama serial, ‘Dhoop kinaray.’ Rahat played the role of ‘Dr. Ahmer,’ while Marina Khan appeared as ‘Zoya,’ in ‘Dhoop kinaray.’ In fact, Rahat was dramatizing socially impact stories before anyone else had the courage or imagination to do it—and in the process he changed lives. Rahat gave magnificent performance in the television drama serial, ‘Karavan.’ Perhaps, Rahat learnt early in life that the secret of success lies in an indomitable commitment to honesty in motion. A man of many projects, Rahat was also behind such super hit television drama serials as ‘Nangey paaon.’ Rahat gave superfluous performance as ‘Azeem Sahib,’ in ‘Nangey paaon.’ Similarly, Sahira Kazmi’s television drama ‘Hawwa ki beti,’ was a great success. Sahira’s daughter played the lead role and astonished viewers through her commendable performance. Rahat’s name became a household word and millions of admirers have applauded his memorable character in the mega hit Lahore television drama serial ‘Ragoan mein andhera.’ Rahat’s acting was superlative as deputy superintendent of police. Writer, Yunus Javed, producer, Rashid Daar. It is laudable indeed, that Rahat found a perfect unanimity of tone with his directors and writers. Rahat’s magnificent performance in the super hit Pakistani television drama serial ‘Parchaiyan,’ is worth watching. Writer, Haseena Moin, adapted from Henry James English novel, ‘Portrait of a lady.’ Cast included Rahat- Sahira Kazmi- Shakeel- Talat Husain. The list of Rahat’s television plays that have become gold standards goes on and on like the Pakistani television drama serial, ‘Ehsaas.’ In ‘Ehsaas,’ Rahat once again teamed up with Marina Khan, writer, Shahid Kazmi, director, Shehzad Khalil. Rahat debuted in the film ‘Aaj aur kal,’ in 1976. Theatrical release was on April 2, 1976. Director, Syed Sulaiman. Rahat- Shabnam played the lead roles. Expecting to impress an open-minded audience, Rahat came out with superb acting in ‘Aaj aur kal.’ Best of all, Rahat remains open to change, professionally and personally. Rahat’s role is laudable in the 1976 film ‘Insaniyat.’ Director, Syed Sulaiman, Rahat- Barbara Sharif played the lead roles. Rahat’s immense composure is quite conspicuous in the 1977 film ‘Mehmaan.’ Cast included Rahat- Barbara Sharif. Rahat worked in the film ‘Suraj bhee tamashai.’ Rahat’s way, as an actor, he is come completely into his own. Rahat, whose life and achievements inspired others, came out with credible performance in the film ‘Muthi bhar chawal,’ June 16, 1978. Rahat played side hero opposite newcomer, Shehla Gul. While Sangeeta and Nadeem played the lead roles. Directed by Sangeeta. For the sake of record keeping, ‘Muthi bhar chawal,’ is adapted from Rajendar Singh Bedi’s novel, ‘Ik chadar melee see.’ Rahat keeps the viewer engaged in the story in the film ‘Pakeeza,’ April 20, 1979. Director, Pervez Malik, Rahat played side hero opposite Naveen Tajik. While Shabnam- Nadeem played the lead roles. Rahat, a popular Pakistani signature, played opposite Najma in the film ‘Khandaan,’ March 28, 1980, director, Riaz Malik. Rahat is also known for his role in the film ‘Saima,’ May 2, 1980. Director, Mohammed Javed Fazil, cast included Rahat- Barbara Sharif- Nadeem. Rahat’s hard work and pride in his work soon caught the eye of other directors. For instance, director Zafar Shabab cast him in the 1980 film ‘Aazmaish.’ Starring, Rahat- Shabnam- Roohi Bano- Shahid. Overwhelmed by Rahat’s ebullient personality and ingenuity, director Athar Shah Khan cast him in the 1982 film ‘Aas paas.’ Cast included Rahat- Nadeem- Barbara Sharif- Rani. Acting is his crucible, and Rahat was steeled for success. That is where his drive came from. Rahat worked in the 1982 film ‘Jaan-e-mun.’ Director, Laeeq Akhtar, cast included Rahat- Barbara Sharif. Having achieved his ambition in the mass media, Rahat has moved on to other projects like education. It is heartening to note that Rahat is the founder, owner and forerunner of an academic institution in Pakistan. Rahat’s great respect and open admiration for education for everyone has led him to deliver lectures and speeches on the importance of education. In the transaction, Rahat has influenced scores of students. Rahat’s message seems to have no borders. After all, if highly enlightened and magnetic personalities like Rahat Kazmi do not care about education, who will? Rahat Kazmi: Won with his strength By Anis Shakur Oh God! Give me the ability to change the things I can, and the courage to bear the things I can’t, and the wisdom to know the difference. The above statement holds true to the television great, Rahat Kazmi. From movie actor to television artist, from critic to talk- show host, from speaker to academician, and from teacher to social thinker, Rahat has proved resourceful, ingenious and pioneering in the past forty-one years. Rahat Kazmi was born on June 30, 1946, in Simla, India. Rahat’s father was a lawyer by profession, and he wanted his son to follow his footsteps. Rahat completed his high school education in Rawalpindi. He successfully completed and received his law degree in Lahore. Additionally, Rahat received his master’s degree in political science from Government college and a master’s degree in English literature from Punjab university. Rahat started his working life as an information officer in 1968 in the Pakistani civil services. After serving for eight years, Rahat resigned from the civil services in 1976. Rahat’s profound love of acting took him irresistibly to the forefront of Pakistani entertainment. Rahat’s first stab at acting came when he was studying for his Bachelors in Government college, Lahore. Likewise, Rahat’s first Lahore television appearance was in 1965 when he participated in a university program. In 1967, Rahat took part in a Rawalpindi television quiz show known as ‘Mayaar.’ Further, Rahat lent a well-balanced and modulated performance in the 1967 Rawalpindi television play ‘Goonge.’ Furthermore, Rahat’s meritocracy of work is quite evident in the television play ‘Koltar,’ opposite Nayyar Kamal. Rahat’s un bowing perseverance and industriousness led to one success after another. The popular television play ‘Anarkali,’ is one such success story. Highly sophisticated artists like Rahat made the Pakistani television where it is today. Reverting to Rahat’s performance, the television play ‘Auraaq,’ was a formidable achievement. The playwright, Fatima Surraiya Bajia, crafted a brilliant play. The habit of translating novels for the television drama serials gives Rahat the greatest ability of dramatization. Rahat’s sumptuous television version of the Russian novel, ‘Fathers and sons,’ by Ivan Turgenev, is a case in point. ‘Fathers and sons’ Urdu version, ‘Qurbatain aur faaslay,’ was telecast from the Rawalpindi television in 1974. Rahat was super smartly dubbed as Ghazanfar or ‘Bazarov,’ in the novel, and Sahira was smartly dubbed as ‘Aaliya.’ In the play, ‘Ghazanfar’ was a medical science student. He fell in love with ‘Aaliya,’ but did not wanted to admit it. Because his extreme views on women prevented him from doing so. He appeared so charismatic and filled his vivid character with enormous emotional power as well. Bad luck, Ghazanfar’s untimely, tragic demise due to typhus makes it a very heartfelt play. Amazingly enough, Rahat married Sahira soon after ‘Qurbatain aur faaslay,’ was telecast over television in 1974. Both their children, a son and a daughter, are very intelligent like their parents. Most importantly, Rahat teamed up with the best people, who made him look good by helping him display more of the full range of his acting talents. Talking of his acting career, Rahat was instrumental in the mega hit television drama serial, ‘Teesra kinara.’ Rahat also used to be the talk-show host in ‘Rahat Kazmi show,’ telecast in the 1970s from the Pakistani television. Essentially, Rahat is an adornment to the Pakistani television. Add to all this is an intelligent wit, a gaiety and verve that are inexhaustible. In his show business career, which spans to forty-one years, Rahat has acted in numerous television plays. Foremost is his sweeping drama serial, ‘Dhoop kinaray.’ Rahat played the role of ‘Dr. Ahmer,’ while Marina Khan appeared as ‘Zoya,’ in ‘Dhoop kinaray.’ In fact, Rahat was dramatizing socially impact stories before anyone else had the courage or imagination to do it—and in the process he changed lives. Rahat gave magnificent performance in the television drama serial, ‘Karavan.’ Perhaps, Rahat learnt early in life that the secret of success lies in an indomitable commitment to honesty in motion. A man of many projects, Rahat was also behind such super hit television drama serials as ‘Nangey paaon.’ Rahat gave superfluous performance as ‘Azeem Sahib,’ in ‘Nangey paaon.’ Similarly, Sahira Kazmi’s television drama ‘Hawwa ki beti,’ was a great success. Sahira’s daughter played the lead role and astonished viewers through her commendable performance. Rahat’s name became a household word and millions of admirers have applauded his memorable character in the mega hit Lahore television drama serial ‘Ragoan mein andhera.’ Rahat’s acting was superlative as deputy superintendent of police. Writer, Yunus Javed, producer, Rashid Daar. It is laudable indeed, that Rahat found a perfect unanimity of tone with his directors and writers. Rahat’s magnificent performance in the super hit Pakistani television drama serial ‘Parchaiyan,’ is worth watching. Writer, Haseena Moin, adapted from Henry James English novel, ‘Portrait of a lady.’ Cast included Rahat- Sahira Kazmi- Shakeel- Talat Husain. The list of Rahat’s television plays that have become gold standards goes on and on like the Pakistani television drama serial, ‘Ehsaas.’ In ‘Ehsaas,’ Rahat once again teamed up with Marina Khan, writer, Shahid Kazmi, director, Shehzad Khalil. Rahat debuted in the film ‘Aaj aur kal,’ in 1976. Theatrical release was on April 2, 1976. Director, Syed Sulaiman. Rahat- Shabnam played the lead roles. Expecting to impress an open-minded audience, Rahat came out with superb acting in ‘Aaj aur kal.’ Best of all, Rahat remains open to change, professionally and personally. Rahat’s role is laudable in the 1976 film ‘Insaniyat.’ Director, Syed Sulaiman, Rahat- Barbara Sharif played the lead roles. Rahat’s immense composure is quite conspicuous in the 1977 film ‘Mehmaan.’ Cast included Rahat- Barbara Sharif. Rahat worked in the film ‘Suraj bhee tamashai.’ Rahat’s way, as an actor, he is come completely into his own. Rahat, whose life and achievements inspired others, came out with credible performance in the film ‘Muthi bhar chawal,’ June 16, 1978. Rahat played side hero opposite newcomer, Shehla Gul. While Sangeeta and Nadeem played the lead roles. Directed by Sangeeta. For the sake of record keeping, ‘Muthi bhar chawal,’ is adapted from Rajendar Singh Bedi’s novel, ‘Ik chadar melee see.’ Rahat keeps the viewer engaged in the story in the film ‘Pakeeza,’ April 20, 1979. Director, Pervez Malik, Rahat played side hero opposite Naveen Tajik. While Shabnam- Nadeem played the lead roles. Rahat, a popular Pakistani signature, played opposite Najma in the film ‘Khandaan,’ March 28, 1980, director, Riaz Malik. Rahat is also known for his role in the film ‘Saima,’ May 2, 1980. Director, Mohammed Javed Fazil, cast included Rahat- Barbara Sharif- Nadeem. Rahat’s hard work and pride in his work soon caught the eye of other directors. For instance, director Zafar Shabab cast him in the 1980 film ‘Aazmaish.’ Starring, Rahat- Shabnam- Roohi Bano- Shahid. Overwhelmed by Rahat’s ebullient personality and ingenuity, director Athar Shah Khan cast him in the 1982 film ‘Aas paas.’ Cast included Rahat- Nadeem- Barbara Sharif- Rani. Acting is his crucible, and Rahat was steeled for success. That is where his drive came from. Rahat worked in the 1982 film ‘Jaan-e-mun.’ Director, Laeeq Akhtar, cast included Rahat- Barbara Sharif. Having achieved his ambition in the mass media, Rahat has moved on to other projects like education. It is heartening to note that Rahat is the founder, owner and forerunner of an academic institution in Pakistan. Rahat’s great respect and open admiration for education for everyone has led him to deliver lectures and speeches on the importance of education. In the transaction, Rahat has influenced scores of students. Rahat’s message seems to have no borders. After all, if highly enlightened and magnetic personalities like Rahat Kazmi do not care about education, who will? Rahat Kazmi: Won with his strength Rahat Kazmi: Won with his strength By Anis Shakur By Anis Shakur Oh God! Give me the ability to change the things I can, and the courage to bear the things I can’t, and the wisdom to know the difference. Oh God! Give me the ability to change the things I can, and the courage to bear the things I can’t, and the wisdom to know the difference. The above statement holds true to the television great, Rahat Kazmi. From movie actor to television artist, from critic to talk- show host, from speaker to academician, and from teacher to social thinker, Rahat has proved resourceful, ingenious and pioneering in the past forty-one years. The above statement holds true to the television great, Rahat Kazmi. From movie actor to television artist, from critic to talk- show host, from speaker to academician, and from teacher to social thinker, Rahat has proved resourceful, ingenious and pioneering in the past forty-one years. Rahat Kazmi was born on June 30, 1946, in Simla, India. Rahat’s father was a lawyer by profession, and he wanted his son to follow his footsteps. Rahat completed his high school education in Rawalpindi. Rahat Kazmi was born on June 30, 1946, in Simla, India. Rahat’s father was a lawyer by profession, and he wanted his son to follow his footsteps. Rahat completed his high school education in Rawalpindi. He successfully completed and received his law degree in Lahore. Additionally, Rahat received his master’s degree in political science from Government college and a master’s degree in English literature from Punjab university. He successfully completed and received his law degree in Lahore. Additionally, Rahat received his master’s degree in political science from Government college and a master’s degree in English literature from Punjab university. Rahat started his working life as an information officer in 1968 in the Pakistani civil services. After serving for eight years, Rahat resigned from the civil services in 1976. Rahat started his working life as an information officer in 1968 in the Pakistani civil services. After serving for eight years, Rahat resigned from the civil services in 1976. Rahat’s profound love of acting took him irresistibly to the forefront of Pakistani entertainment. Rahat’s first stab at acting came when he was studying for his Bachelors in Government college, Lahore. Likewise, Rahat’s first Lahore television appearance was in 1965 when he participated in a university program. Rahat’s profound love of acting took him irresistibly to the forefront of Pakistani entertainment. Rahat’s first stab at acting came when he was studying for his Bachelors in Government college, Lahore. Likewise, Rahat’s first Lahore television appearance was in 1965 when he participated in a university program. In 1967, Rahat took part in a Rawalpindi television quiz show known as ‘Mayaar.’ Further, Rahat lent a well-balanced and modulated performance in the 1967 Rawalpindi television play ‘Goonge.’ In 1967, Rahat took part in a Rawalpindi television quiz show known as ‘Mayaar.’ Further, Rahat lent a well-balanced and modulated performance in the 1967 Rawalpindi television play ‘Goonge.’ Furthermore, Rahat’s meritocracy of work is quite evident in the television play ‘Koltar,’ opposite Nayyar Kamal. Furthermore, Rahat’s meritocracy of work is quite evident in the television play ‘Koltar,’ opposite Nayyar Kamal. Rahat’s un bowing perseverance and industriousness led to one success after another. The popular television play ‘Anarkali,’ is one such success story. Rahat’s un bowing perseverance and industriousness led to one success after another. The popular television play ‘Anarkali,’ is one such success story. Highly sophisticated artists like Rahat made the Pakistani television where it is today. Highly sophisticated artists like Rahat made the Pakistani television where it is today. Reverting to Rahat’s performance, the television play ‘Auraaq,’ was a formidable achievement. The playwright, Fatima Surraiya Bajia, crafted a brilliant play. Reverting to Rahat’s performance, the television play ‘Auraaq,’ was a formidable achievement. The playwright, Fatima Surraiya Bajia, crafted a brilliant play. The habit of translating novels for the television drama serials gives Rahat the greatest ability of dramatization. Rahat’s sumptuous television version of the Russian novel, ‘Fathers and sons,’ by Ivan Turgenev, is a case in point. ‘Fathers and sons’ Urdu version, ‘Qurbatain aur faaslay,’ was telecast from the Rawalpindi television in 1974. Rahat was super smartly dubbed as Ghazanfar or ‘Bazarov,’ in the novel, and Sahira was smartly dubbed as ‘Aaliya.’ The habit of translating novels for the television drama serials gives Rahat the greatest ability of dramatization. Rahat’s sumptuous television version of the Russian novel, ‘Fathers and sons,’ by Ivan Turgenev, is a case in point. ‘Fathers and sons’ Urdu version, ‘Qurbatain aur faaslay,’ was telecast from the Rawalpindi television in 1974. Rahat was super smartly dubbed as Ghazanfar or ‘Bazarov,’ in the novel, and Sahira was smartly dubbed as ‘Aaliya.’ In the play, ‘Ghazanfar’ was a medical science student. He fell in love with ‘Aaliya,’ but did not wanted to admit it. Because his extreme views on women prevented him from doing so. He appeared so charismatic and filled his vivid character with enormous emotional power as well. Bad luck, Ghazanfar’s untimely, tragic demise due to typhus makes it a very heartfelt play. In the play, ‘Ghazanfar’ was a medical science student. He fell in love with ‘Aaliya,’ but did not wanted to admit it. Because his extreme views on women prevented him from doing so. He appeared so charismatic and filled his vivid character with enormous emotional power as well. Bad luck, Ghazanfar’s untimely, tragic demise due to typhus makes it a very heartfelt play. Amazingly enough, Rahat married Sahira soon after ‘Qurbatain aur faaslay,’ was telecast over television in 1974. Both their children, a son and a daughter, are very intelligent like their parents. Amazingly enough, Rahat married Sahira soon after ‘Qurbatain aur faaslay,’ was telecast over television in 1974. Both their children, a son and a daughter, are very intelligent like their parents. Most importantly, Rahat teamed up with the best people, who made him look good by helping him display more of the full range of his acting talents. Talking of his acting career, Rahat was instrumental in the mega hit television drama serial, ‘Teesra kinara.’ Most importantly, Rahat teamed up with the best people, who made him look good by helping him display more of the full range of his acting talents. Talking of his acting career, Rahat was instrumental in the mega hit television drama serial, ‘Teesra kinara.’ Rahat also used to be the talk-show host in ‘Rahat Kazmi show,’ telecast in the 1970s from the Pakistani television. Rahat also used to be the talk-show host in ‘Rahat Kazmi show,’ telecast in the 1970s from the Pakistani television. Essentially, Rahat is an adornment to the Pakistani television. Add to all this is an intelligent wit, a gaiety and verve that are inexhaustible. In his show business career, which spans to forty-one years, Rahat has acted in numerous television plays. Foremost is his sweeping drama serial, ‘Dhoop kinaray.’ Rahat played the role of ‘Dr. Ahmer,’ while Marina Khan appeared as ‘Zoya,’ in ‘Dhoop kinaray.’ Essentially, Rahat is an adornment to the Pakistani television. Add to all this is an intelligent wit, a gaiety and verve that are inexhaustible. In his show business career, which spans to forty-one years, Rahat has acted in numerous television plays. Foremost is his sweeping drama serial, ‘Dhoop kinaray.’ Rahat played the role of ‘Dr. Ahmer,’ while Marina Khan appeared as ‘Zoya,’ in ‘Dhoop kinaray.’ In fact, Rahat was dramatizing socially impact stories before anyone else had the courage or imagination to do it—and in the process he changed lives. Rahat gave magnificent performance in the television drama serial, ‘Karavan.’ In fact, Rahat was dramatizing socially impact stories before anyone else had the courage or imagination to do it—and in the process he changed lives. Rahat gave magnificent performance in the television drama serial, ‘Karavan.’ Perhaps, Rahat learnt early in life that the secret of success lies in an indomitable commitment to honesty in motion. A man of many projects, Rahat was also behind such super hit television drama serials as ‘Nangey paaon.’ Rahat gave superfluous performance as ‘Azeem Sahib,’ in ‘Nangey paaon.’ Perhaps, Rahat learnt early in life that the secret of success lies in an indomitable commitment to honesty in motion. A man of many projects, Rahat was also behind such super hit television drama serials as ‘Nangey paaon.’ Rahat gave superfluous performance as ‘Azeem Sahib,’ in ‘Nangey paaon.’ Similarly, Sahira Kazmi’s television drama ‘Hawwa ki beti,’ was a great success. Sahira’s daughter played the lead role and astonished viewers through her commendable performance. Similarly, Sahira Kazmi’s television drama ‘Hawwa ki beti,’ was a great success. Sahira’s daughter played the lead role and astonished viewers through her commendable performance. Rahat’s name became a household word and millions of admirers have applauded his memorable character in the mega hit Lahore television drama serial ‘Ragoan mein andhera.’ Rahat’s acting was superlative as deputy superintendent of police. Writer, Yunus Javed, producer, Rashid Daar. Rahat’s name became a household word and millions of admirers have applauded his memorable character in the mega hit Lahore television drama serial ‘Ragoan mein andhera.’ Rahat’s acting was superlative as deputy superintendent of police. Writer, Yunus Javed, producer, Rashid Daar. Rahat debuted in the film ‘Aaj aur kal,’ in 1976. Theatrical release was on April 2, 1976. Director, Syed Sulaiman. Rahat- Shabnam played the lead roles. Expecting to impress an open-minded audience, Rahat came out with superb acting in ‘Aaj aur kal.’ Rahat debuted in the film ‘Aaj aur kal,’ in 1976. Theatrical release was on April 2, 1976. Director, Syed Sulaiman. Rahat- Shabnam played the lead roles. Expecting to impress an open-minded audience, Rahat came out with superb acting in ‘Aaj aur kal.’ Best of all, Rahat remains open to change, professionally and personally. Rahat’s role is laudable in the 1976 film ‘Insaniyat.’ Director, Syed Sulaiman, Rahat- Barbara Sharif played the lead roles. Best of all, Rahat remains open to change, professionally and personally. Rahat’s role is laudable in the 1976 film ‘Insaniyat.’ Director, Syed Sulaiman, Rahat- Barbara Sharif played the lead roles. Rahat’s immense composure is quite conspicuous in the 1977 film ‘Mehmaan.’ Cast included Rahat- Barbara Sharif. Rahat’s immense composure is quite conspicuous in the 1977 film ‘Mehmaan.’ Cast included Rahat- Barbara Sharif. Rahat worked in the film ‘Suraj bhee tamashai.’ Rahat’s way, as an actor, he is come completely into his own. Rahat worked in the film ‘Suraj bhee tamashai.’ Rahat’s way, as an actor, he is come completely into his own. Rahat, whose life and achievements inspired others, came out with credible performance in the film ‘Muthi bhar chawal,’ June 16, 1978. Rahat played side hero opposite newcomer, Shehla Gul. While Sangeeta and Nadeem played the lead roles. Directed by Sangeeta. For the sake of record keeping, ‘Muthi bhar chawal,’ is adapted from Rajendar Singh Bedi’s novel, ‘Ik chadar melee see.’ Rahat, whose life and achievements inspired others, came out with credible performance in the film ‘Muthi bhar chawal,’ June 16, 1978. Rahat played side hero opposite newcomer, Shehla Gul. While Sangeeta and Nadeem played the lead roles. Directed by Sangeeta. For the sake of record keeping, ‘Muthi bhar chawal,’ is adapted from Rajendar Singh Bedi’s novel, ‘Ik chadar melee see.’ Rahat keeps the viewer engaged in the story in the film ‘Pakeeza,’ April 20, 1979. Director, Pervez Malik, Rahat played side hero opposite Naveen Tajik. While Shabnam- Nadeem played the lead roles. Rahat keeps the viewer engaged in the story in the film ‘Pakeeza,’ April 20, 1979. Director, Pervez Malik, Rahat played side hero opposite Naveen Tajik. While Shabnam- Nadeem played the lead roles. Rahat, a popular Pakistani signature, played opposite Najma in the film ‘Khandaan,’ March 28, 1980, director, Riaz Malik. Rahat, a popular Pakistani signature, played opposite Najma in the film ‘Khandaan,’ March 28, 1980, director, Riaz Malik. Rahat is also known for his role in the film ‘Saima,’ May 2, 1980. Director, Mohammed Javed Fazil, cast included Rahat- Barbara Sharif- Nadeem. Rahat is also known for his role in the film ‘Saima,’ May 2, 1980. Director, Mohammed Javed Fazil, cast included Rahat- Barbara Sharif- Nadeem. Rahat’s hard work and pride in his work soon caught the eye of other directors. For instance, director Zafar Shabab cast him in the 1980 film ‘Aazmaish.’ Starring, Rahat- Shabnam- Roohi Bano- Shahid. Rahat’s hard work and pride in his work soon caught the eye of other directors. For instance, director Zafar Shabab cast him in the 1980 film ‘Aazmaish.’ Starring, Rahat- Shabnam- Roohi Bano- Shahid. Overwhelmed by Rahat’s ebullient personality and ingenuity, director Athar Shah Khan cast him in the 1982 film ‘Aas paas.’ Cast included Rahat- Nadeem- Barbara Sharif- Rani. Overwhelmed by Rahat’s ebullient personality and ingenuity, director Athar Shah Khan cast him in the 1982 film ‘Aas paas.’ Cast included Rahat- Nadeem- Barbara Sharif- Rani. Acting is his crucible, and Rahat was steeled for success. That is where his drive came from. Rahat worked in the 1982 film ‘Jaan-e-mun.’ Director, Laeeq Akhtar, cast included Rahat- Barbara Sharif. Acting is his crucible, and Rahat was steeled for success. That is where his drive came from. Rahat worked in the 1982 film ‘Jaan-e-mun.’ Director, Laeeq Akhtar, cast included Rahat- Barbara Sharif. Having achieved his ambition in the mass media, Rahat has moved on to other projects like education. It is heartening to note that Rahat is the founder, owner and forerunner of an academic institution in Pakistan. Having achieved his ambition in the mass media, Rahat has moved on to other projects like education. It is heartening to note that Rahat is the founder, owner and forerunner of an academic institution in Pakistan. Rahat’s great respect and open admiration for education for everyone has led him to deliver lectures and speeches on the importance of education. In the transaction, Rahat has influenced scores of students. Rahat’s great respect and open admiration for education for everyone has led him to deliver lectures and speeches on the importance of education. In the transaction, Rahat has influenced scores of students. Rahat’s message seems to have no borders. After all, if highly enlightened and magnetic personalities like Rahat Kazmi do not care about education, who will? Rahat’s message seems to have no borders. After all, if highly enlightened and magnetic personalities like Rahat Kazmi do not care about education, who will? Our beloved Pakistan Our beloved Pakistan