Source: https://community-sitcom.fandom.com/wiki/Abed_(Darkest_Timeline)
Title: Abed (Darkest Timeline) | Community Wiki | Fandom
Words: 5466

================================================================================

in: Community Characters, Season 3 Characters, Abed Nadir, and 3 more Evil Study Group Darkest Timeline Season 4 Characters Abed (Darkest Timeline) Sign in to edit History Purge Talk (0) in: Community Characters, Season 3 Characters, Abed Nadir, and 3 more Evil Study Group Darkest Timeline Season 4 Characters in: Community Characters, Season 3 Characters, Abed Nadir, and 3 more Evil Study Group Darkest Timeline Season 4 Characters in: Community Characters, Season 3 Characters, Abed Nadir, and 3 more Evil Study Group Darkest Timeline Season 4 Characters and 3 more Evil Study Group Darkest Timeline Season 4 Characters Evil Study Group Darkest Timeline Season 4 Characters Evil Study Group Darkest Timeline Season 4 Characters Abed (Darkest Timeline) Sign in to edit History Purge Talk (0) Abed (Darkest Timeline) Abed (Darkest Timeline) Sign in to edit History Purge Talk (0) History Purge Talk (0) History Purge Talk (0) Visitor Pass Abed Nadir Alternate counterpart of Abed (Prime Timeline) Portrayed by: Danny Pudi First appearance: "Remedial Chaos Theory" Last appearance: "Advanced Introduction to Finality" Home town: The Darkest Timeline Occupation: Reformed Evil genius Evil origin: Feels responsible for not stopping the die Bio[] “Cruel. Cruel, cruel, cruel. ” — Evil Abed, "Introduction to Finality". Evil Abed portrayed by Danny Pudi. In an alternate reality, a random chain of events was set in motion that ended up creating "The Darkest Timeline". In this scenario, the study group is in shambles. The timeline's Abed renames himself Evil Abed and decides on a drastic course of action to set things right. Using The Dreamatorium as a conduit to the Prime Timeline, he contacts Abed and slowly starts to manipulate him in order to bring his evil plan to fruition. Ultimately, he renounces his evil ways and name when he is inspired by the "Prime Timelines" Jeff. His first appearance is in the Season Three episode "Remedial Chaos Theory". He is portrayed by Danny Pudi. Character history[] Season Three[] With Pierce (supposedly) dead, Annie in psychiatric care, Troy having severely injured his throat, Jeff losing an arm, and Shirley an alcoholic, Abed declared this The Darkest Timeline. He proposed to the remaining study group members that they become the Evil Study Group and to find a way to the "Prime Timeline" they diverged from. Once there, they would kill their counterparts and take over their lives. He handed them all black beards made out of felt to symbolize their evilness, but only Troy agreed to wear it. ("Remedial Chaos Theory") He was later seen alongside the Prime Timeline's Abed in The Dreamatorium. No longer wearing a felt goatee, he appeared with a fully grown beard and was trying to drive a wedge in the friendship between the Prime Timeline's Abed and Troy. ("Contemporary Impressionists") From now on I am Evil Abed. Evil Abed appeared to his duplicate when he had been separated from Troy who was forced to enrol in the Greendale's air conditioning annex. Desperate to cope with the loss of his best friend, Abed turned to Britta for help, agreeing to undergo therapy with her. Unfortunately, Evil Abed persuades him into entering The Dreamatorium. When Britta arrived for their session, she found he had been completely taken over by Evil Abed. Britta didn't take the change in Abed's disposition seriously and assumed it to be him role-playing. Evil Abed turned the therapy session around on her and got her to reveal her deepest fears. He verbally berated Britta, leaving her depressed before leaving to turn the "Prime Timeline" as dark as the one he came from. Evil Abed POV. Along the way to his next target (Jeff), he darkened the timeline by hanging up a pay phone while a student was on the line, popping a balloon a girl was holding with his cigarette then dropping his cigarette in a student's coffee cup. He found Jeff in the Greendale summer courthouse representing Shirley for a faux-law suit Pierce filed against her. Evil Abed came equipped with a bone saw, intending to cut off Jeff's arm to make him just like his timeline's Evil Jeff. The short power cord prevented him from using the bone saw and he was forced to go find an extension cord. He returned just in time for Jeff's closing arguments. He finds himself too moved by Jeff's speech about friendship and selflessness to carry out his plan. This temporarily caused him to doubt his own plans and gave "Prime timeline" Abed the chance to regain control of his body. He caused the felt goatee to fall off and sent Evil Abed's "spirit" back to the Darkest Timeline. ("Introduction to Finality") The end of Evil Abed. Season Four[] Evil Abed took the Winger Speech to heart and upon returning to his reality decided to try to brighten his own timeline instead of trying to darken others. However, Evil Jeff at the same time embraced his dark side and took control of the remaining Evil Study Group. Evil Troy turned his back on his now reformed best friend and joined Evil Jeff in his campaign to destroy the "Prime Timeline". When Evil Jeff crossed over, he used a special paintball gun to send "Prime Timeline" Abed to his world. While in the Darkest Timeline, Abed sought out his double. He found the formerly Evil Abed in his apartment who explained to him what occurred since their last encounter. Along with a DVD of all six seasons of his world's "The Cape", the Darkest Timeline Abed gave his double a means to return to his reality. He also gave him paintball equipment to combat the Evil Study group. ("Advanced Introduction to Finality") After renouncing his evil ways, he is just Abed now. Gallery[] Trivia[] Inspiration[] Evil Abed, The Darkest Timeline, and the black beards are directly inspired by the Mirror universe concept in the Star Trek franchise. First introduced in the original series episode "Mirror, Mirror" it features the main characters visiting a parallel world filled with evil doppelgängers of themselves and Spock's double is sporting a beard. Quotes[] "Remedial Chaos Theory": “From now on, I am Evil Abed. We are the Evil Study group, and we have but one evil goal: return somehow to the Prime Timeline, the one that I stopped you from rolling that die. Then we destroy the good versions of ourselves and reclaim our proper lives.”— Evil Abed "Introduction to Finality": “When the world gets bad enough, Abed, the good go crazy, but the smart.they go bad.”— Evil Abed “Cruel.cruel, cruel, cruel.”— Evil Abed “Do you know what kind of person becomes a psychologist, Britta? A person that wishes deep down that everyone more special than them is sick because healthy sounds so much more exciting than boring. You're average, Britta Perry. You're every kid on the playground that didn't get picked on. You're a business casual potted plant, a human white sale, you're VH-1, Robocop 2 and Back To the Future 3, you're the center slice to a square cheese pizza. actually that sounds delicious. I'm the center slice to a square cheese pizza.You're Jim Belushi. ”— Evil Abed v·d·eCharactersGreendale StudentsThe Study GroupJeff Winger · Britta Perry · Abed Nadir · Shirley Bennett · Troy Barnes · Pierce Hawthorne · Annie EdisonPairingsJeff and Britta · Troy and Abed · Jeff and AnnieTroy and Britta · Annie and Abed · Jeff and Shirley · Troy and Annie · Shirley and Pierce · Jeff and Abed · Britta and Annie · Pierce and Abed · Annie and Vaughn · Abed and Rachel · Jeff and Pierce · Jeff and Troy · Shirley and Andre · Jeff and Slater · Carl and RichieRecurring studentsAlex "Star-Burns" Osbourne · Leonard Rodriguez · Garrett Lambert · Fat Neil · Vicki Jenkins · Magnitude · Quendra · Todd Jacobson · Vaughn Miller · Rich Stephenson · Stoner friend · Pavel Iwaszkiewicz · Rachel · Eric WisniewskiJenny Adams · Angela · Buddy Austin · Mark Cahill · Carol · Mike Chilada · Claire · Kelly Cortlandt · Archie DeCoste · Derrick · Doreen · Joey Elkins · Buzz Foster · Linda Greene · MC Dan Harmon · Harry Jefferson · Juergen · Karl · Kat · Annie Kim · Lukas · Lukka · Kim McFadden · Meghan · Mark Millot · Page · Reinhold · Sabrina Shmuckle · Subway · Scott Waugh · Wu Mei · Koogler · DaveSeason One minor characters · Season Two minor characters · Season Three minor characters · Season Four minor characters · Season Five minor characters · Season Six minor charactersActivities and CliquesThe Study Group · The Greendale Gooffaws · The Germans · The High Schoolers · The Hipsters · Some Worries · Glee Club · Natalie Is FreezingGreendale EmployeesAdministrationDean Craig Pelton · Vice Dean Robert Laybourne · Carl Bladt · Richie Countee · Francesca "Frankie" DartFacultyBen Chang · Professor June Bauer · Coach Bogner · Professor Bublitz · Coach Jason Chapman · Professor Cligoris · Professor Noel Cornwallis · Dr. Ian Duncan · Dr. Escodera · Professor Sean Garrity · Professor Buzz Hickey · Professor Holly · Dr. Patrick Isakson · Dr. Marshall Kane · Madame LeClair · Cory Radison · Professor Sheffield · Professor Michelle Slater · Admiral Lee Slaughter · Eustice Whitman · Jeff Winger · Professor Albrecht · Roger DeSalvoStaffGreendale Human Being · Gail · Nurse Jackie · Lunch Lady · Mariah · Nicole · Waldron · Debra Chambers · Elroy Patashnik · RhondaCampus SecuritySgt. Nunez · Troy and Abed look-a-likes · Changlourious Basterds · Joshua (Changlourious Basterds)Custodial StaffJerry · Joshua · Lapari · Crazy Schmidt · Bob WaiteOff-CampusRelativesWilliam Winger · Willy Jr. · Marcus · Gobi Nadir · Abra · Andre Bennett · Elijah Bennett · Jordan Bennett · Ben Bennett · Elijah and Jordan · Nana Barnes · Pierce's mom · Cornelius Hawthorne · Gilbert Lawson · Amber · Rabbi Chang · Alessandra Chang · Hank Hickey · Anthony EdisonLt. Colonel Norbert Archwood · Balloon guide · Blade · Brian · Officer Cackowski · Chantelle Cahill · Alan Connor · The Doppel Gang · Faux-by · Dr. Heidi · Jesus · Ken Kedan · Lauren · Señor Kevin's manager · Mark · Mountain man · Mysti · Nurse · Rick · Mr. Stone · Ted · Toby the pizza guy · Urbana Champaign · Vinnie · Agent Robin Vohlers · Toby Weeks · Subway rep · Ronald Mohammad · Honda boss · MurrayCity CollegeDean Stephen Spreck · Jeremy Simmons · Billy · The Black Rider · City College Storm TroopersAnimalsAnnie's Boobs · Britta's cats · Billy · Fievel · Turtle · RufflesMeta-fictionalKickpuncher · Hilda ·Inspector SpacetimeThe Inspector · Constable Reggie · BlorgonsCelebritiesLeVar Burton · Luis Guzman · Sophie B. HawkinsAlter egosTiny Man · Alter-Pierce · Greendale Babies · Boob-A-Tron · Pillow Man · Ass Crack BanditChristmas ToysBritta Bot · Ballerannie · Jeff-in-the-box · Baby Doll Shirley · Teddy Pierce · Troy Soldier · Christmas Wizard · Christmas PterodactylThe Darkest TimelineEvil Abed · Evil Jeff · Evil Annie · Evil Troy · Evil Shirley · Evil Britta · Evil PierceG.I.JoeWingman · Buzzkill · Tight Ship · Fourth Wall · Three Kids · Overkill · Xim Xam · Major Dick · Vice Cobra Assistant Commander Visitor Pass Abed Nadir Alternate counterpart of Abed (Prime Timeline) Portrayed by: Danny Pudi First appearance: "Remedial Chaos Theory" Last appearance: "Advanced Introduction to Finality" Home town: The Darkest Timeline Occupation: Reformed Evil genius Evil origin: Feels responsible for not stopping the die Bio[] “Cruel. Cruel, cruel, cruel. ” — Evil Abed, "Introduction to Finality". Evil Abed portrayed by Danny Pudi. In an alternate reality, a random chain of events was set in motion that ended up creating "The Darkest Timeline". In this scenario, the study group is in shambles. The timeline's Abed renames himself Evil Abed and decides on a drastic course of action to set things right. Using The Dreamatorium as a conduit to the Prime Timeline, he contacts Abed and slowly starts to manipulate him in order to bring his evil plan to fruition. Ultimately, he renounces his evil ways and name when he is inspired by the "Prime Timelines" Jeff. His first appearance is in the Season Three episode "Remedial Chaos Theory". He is portrayed by Danny Pudi. Character history[] Season Three[] With Pierce (supposedly) dead, Annie in psychiatric care, Troy having severely injured his throat, Jeff losing an arm, and Shirley an alcoholic, Abed declared this The Darkest Timeline. He proposed to the remaining study group members that they become the Evil Study Group and to find a way to the "Prime Timeline" they diverged from. Once there, they would kill their counterparts and take over their lives. He handed them all black beards made out of felt to symbolize their evilness, but only Troy agreed to wear it. ("Remedial Chaos Theory") He was later seen alongside the Prime Timeline's Abed in The Dreamatorium. No longer wearing a felt goatee, he appeared with a fully grown beard and was trying to drive a wedge in the friendship between the Prime Timeline's Abed and Troy. ("Contemporary Impressionists") From now on I am Evil Abed. Evil Abed appeared to his duplicate when he had been separated from Troy who was forced to enrol in the Greendale's air conditioning annex. Desperate to cope with the loss of his best friend, Abed turned to Britta for help, agreeing to undergo therapy with her. Unfortunately, Evil Abed persuades him into entering The Dreamatorium. When Britta arrived for their session, she found he had been completely taken over by Evil Abed. Britta didn't take the change in Abed's disposition seriously and assumed it to be him role-playing. Evil Abed turned the therapy session around on her and got her to reveal her deepest fears. He verbally berated Britta, leaving her depressed before leaving to turn the "Prime Timeline" as dark as the one he came from. Evil Abed POV. Along the way to his next target (Jeff), he darkened the timeline by hanging up a pay phone while a student was on the line, popping a balloon a girl was holding with his cigarette then dropping his cigarette in a student's coffee cup. He found Jeff in the Greendale summer courthouse representing Shirley for a faux-law suit Pierce filed against her. Evil Abed came equipped with a bone saw, intending to cut off Jeff's arm to make him just like his timeline's Evil Jeff. The short power cord prevented him from using the bone saw and he was forced to go find an extension cord. He returned just in time for Jeff's closing arguments. He finds himself too moved by Jeff's speech about friendship and selflessness to carry out his plan. This temporarily caused him to doubt his own plans and gave "Prime timeline" Abed the chance to regain control of his body. He caused the felt goatee to fall off and sent Evil Abed's "spirit" back to the Darkest Timeline. ("Introduction to Finality") The end of Evil Abed. Season Four[] Evil Abed took the Winger Speech to heart and upon returning to his reality decided to try to brighten his own timeline instead of trying to darken others. However, Evil Jeff at the same time embraced his dark side and took control of the remaining Evil Study Group. Evil Troy turned his back on his now reformed best friend and joined Evil Jeff in his campaign to destroy the "Prime Timeline". When Evil Jeff crossed over, he used a special paintball gun to send "Prime Timeline" Abed to his world. While in the Darkest Timeline, Abed sought out his double. He found the formerly Evil Abed in his apartment who explained to him what occurred since their last encounter. Along with a DVD of all six seasons of his world's "The Cape", the Darkest Timeline Abed gave his double a means to return to his reality. He also gave him paintball equipment to combat the Evil Study group. ("Advanced Introduction to Finality") After renouncing his evil ways, he is just Abed now. Gallery[] Trivia[] Inspiration[] Evil Abed, The Darkest Timeline, and the black beards are directly inspired by the Mirror universe concept in the Star Trek franchise. First introduced in the original series episode "Mirror, Mirror" it features the main characters visiting a parallel world filled with evil doppelgängers of themselves and Spock's double is sporting a beard. Quotes[] "Remedial Chaos Theory": “From now on, I am Evil Abed. We are the Evil Study group, and we have but one evil goal: return somehow to the Prime Timeline, the one that I stopped you from rolling that die. Then we destroy the good versions of ourselves and reclaim our proper lives.”— Evil Abed "Introduction to Finality": “When the world gets bad enough, Abed, the good go crazy, but the smart.they go bad.”— Evil Abed “Cruel.cruel, cruel, cruel.”— Evil Abed “Do you know what kind of person becomes a psychologist, Britta? A person that wishes deep down that everyone more special than them is sick because healthy sounds so much more exciting than boring. You're average, Britta Perry. You're every kid on the playground that didn't get picked on. You're a business casual potted plant, a human white sale, you're VH-1, Robocop 2 and Back To the Future 3, you're the center slice to a square cheese pizza. actually that sounds delicious. I'm the center slice to a square cheese pizza.You're Jim Belushi. ”— Evil Abed v·d·eCharactersGreendale StudentsThe Study GroupJeff Winger · Britta Perry · Abed Nadir · Shirley Bennett · Troy Barnes · Pierce Hawthorne · Annie EdisonPairingsJeff and Britta · Troy and Abed · Jeff and AnnieTroy and Britta · Annie and Abed · Jeff and Shirley · Troy and Annie · Shirley and Pierce · Jeff and Abed · Britta and Annie · Pierce and Abed · Annie and Vaughn · Abed and Rachel · Jeff and Pierce · Jeff and Troy · Shirley and Andre · Jeff and Slater · Carl and RichieRecurring studentsAlex "Star-Burns" Osbourne · Leonard Rodriguez · Garrett Lambert · Fat Neil · Vicki Jenkins · Magnitude · Quendra · Todd Jacobson · Vaughn Miller · Rich Stephenson · Stoner friend · Pavel Iwaszkiewicz · Rachel · Eric WisniewskiJenny Adams · Angela · Buddy Austin · Mark Cahill · Carol · Mike Chilada · Claire · Kelly Cortlandt · Archie DeCoste · Derrick · Doreen · Joey Elkins · Buzz Foster · Linda Greene · MC Dan Harmon · Harry Jefferson · Juergen · Karl · Kat · Annie Kim · Lukas · Lukka · Kim McFadden · Meghan · Mark Millot · Page · Reinhold · Sabrina Shmuckle · Subway · Scott Waugh · Wu Mei · Koogler · DaveSeason One minor characters · Season Two minor characters · Season Three minor characters · Season Four minor characters · Season Five minor characters · Season Six minor charactersActivities and CliquesThe Study Group · The Greendale Gooffaws · The Germans · The High Schoolers · The Hipsters · Some Worries · Glee Club · Natalie Is FreezingGreendale EmployeesAdministrationDean Craig Pelton · Vice Dean Robert Laybourne · Carl Bladt · Richie Countee · Francesca "Frankie" DartFacultyBen Chang · Professor June Bauer · Coach Bogner · Professor Bublitz · Coach Jason Chapman · Professor Cligoris · Professor Noel Cornwallis · Dr. Ian Duncan · Dr. Escodera · Professor Sean Garrity · Professor Buzz Hickey · Professor Holly · Dr. Patrick Isakson · Dr. Marshall Kane · Madame LeClair · Cory Radison · Professor Sheffield · Professor Michelle Slater · Admiral Lee Slaughter · Eustice Whitman · Jeff Winger · Professor Albrecht · Roger DeSalvoStaffGreendale Human Being · Gail · Nurse Jackie · Lunch Lady · Mariah · Nicole · Waldron · Debra Chambers · Elroy Patashnik · RhondaCampus SecuritySgt. Nunez · Troy and Abed look-a-likes · Changlourious Basterds · Joshua (Changlourious Basterds)Custodial StaffJerry · Joshua · Lapari · Crazy Schmidt · Bob WaiteOff-CampusRelativesWilliam Winger · Willy Jr. · Marcus · Gobi Nadir · Abra · Andre Bennett · Elijah Bennett · Jordan Bennett · Ben Bennett · Elijah and Jordan · Nana Barnes · Pierce's mom · Cornelius Hawthorne · Gilbert Lawson · Amber · Rabbi Chang · Alessandra Chang · Hank Hickey · Anthony EdisonLt. Colonel Norbert Archwood · Balloon guide · Blade · Brian · Officer Cackowski · Chantelle Cahill · Alan Connor · The Doppel Gang · Faux-by · Dr. Heidi · Jesus · Ken Kedan · Lauren · Señor Kevin's manager · Mark · Mountain man · Mysti · Nurse · Rick · Mr. Stone · Ted · Toby the pizza guy · Urbana Champaign · Vinnie · Agent Robin Vohlers · Toby Weeks · Subway rep · Ronald Mohammad · Honda boss · MurrayCity CollegeDean Stephen Spreck · Jeremy Simmons · Billy · The Black Rider · City College Storm TroopersAnimalsAnnie's Boobs · Britta's cats · Billy · Fievel · Turtle · RufflesMeta-fictionalKickpuncher · Hilda ·Inspector SpacetimeThe Inspector · Constable Reggie · BlorgonsCelebritiesLeVar Burton · Luis Guzman · Sophie B. HawkinsAlter egosTiny Man · Alter-Pierce · Greendale Babies · Boob-A-Tron · Pillow Man · Ass Crack BanditChristmas ToysBritta Bot · Ballerannie · Jeff-in-the-box · Baby Doll Shirley · Teddy Pierce · Troy Soldier · Christmas Wizard · Christmas PterodactylThe Darkest TimelineEvil Abed · Evil Jeff · Evil Annie · Evil Troy · Evil Shirley · Evil Britta · Evil PierceG.I.JoeWingman · Buzzkill · Tight Ship · Fourth Wall · Three Kids · Overkill · Xim Xam · Major Dick · Vice Cobra Assistant Commander Visitor Pass Abed Nadir Alternate counterpart of Abed (Prime Timeline) Portrayed by: Danny Pudi First appearance: "Remedial Chaos Theory" Last appearance: "Advanced Introduction to Finality" Home town: The Darkest Timeline Occupation: Reformed Evil genius Evil origin: Feels responsible for not stopping the die Bio[] “Cruel. Cruel, cruel, cruel. ” — Evil Abed, "Introduction to Finality". Evil Abed portrayed by Danny Pudi. In an alternate reality, a random chain of events was set in motion that ended up creating "The Darkest Timeline". In this scenario, the study group is in shambles. The timeline's Abed renames himself Evil Abed and decides on a drastic course of action to set things right. Using The Dreamatorium as a conduit to the Prime Timeline, he contacts Abed and slowly starts to manipulate him in order to bring his evil plan to fruition. Ultimately, he renounces his evil ways and name when he is inspired by the "Prime Timelines" Jeff. His first appearance is in the Season Three episode "Remedial Chaos Theory". He is portrayed by Danny Pudi. Character history[] Season Three[] With Pierce (supposedly) dead, Annie in psychiatric care, Troy having severely injured his throat, Jeff losing an arm, and Shirley an alcoholic, Abed declared this The Darkest Timeline. He proposed to the remaining study group members that they become the Evil Study Group and to find a way to the "Prime Timeline" they diverged from. Once there, they would kill their counterparts and take over their lives. He handed them all black beards made out of felt to symbolize their evilness, but only Troy agreed to wear it. ("Remedial Chaos Theory") He was later seen alongside the Prime Timeline's Abed in The Dreamatorium. No longer wearing a felt goatee, he appeared with a fully grown beard and was trying to drive a wedge in the friendship between the Prime Timeline's Abed and Troy. ("Contemporary Impressionists") From now on I am Evil Abed. Evil Abed appeared to his duplicate when he had been separated from Troy who was forced to enrol in the Greendale's air conditioning annex. Desperate to cope with the loss of his best friend, Abed turned to Britta for help, agreeing to undergo therapy with her. Unfortunately, Evil Abed persuades him into entering The Dreamatorium. When Britta arrived for their session, she found he had been completely taken over by Evil Abed. Britta didn't take the change in Abed's disposition seriously and assumed it to be him role-playing. Evil Abed turned the therapy session around on her and got her to reveal her deepest fears. He verbally berated Britta, leaving her depressed before leaving to turn the "Prime Timeline" as dark as the one he came from. Evil Abed POV. Along the way to his next target (Jeff), he darkened the timeline by hanging up a pay phone while a student was on the line, popping a balloon a girl was holding with his cigarette then dropping his cigarette in a student's coffee cup. He found Jeff in the Greendale summer courthouse representing Shirley for a faux-law suit Pierce filed against her. Evil Abed came equipped with a bone saw, intending to cut off Jeff's arm to make him just like his timeline's Evil Jeff. The short power cord prevented him from using the bone saw and he was forced to go find an extension cord. He returned just in time for Jeff's closing arguments. He finds himself too moved by Jeff's speech about friendship and selflessness to carry out his plan. This temporarily caused him to doubt his own plans and gave "Prime timeline" Abed the chance to regain control of his body. He caused the felt goatee to fall off and sent Evil Abed's "spirit" back to the Darkest Timeline. ("Introduction to Finality") The end of Evil Abed. Season Four[] Evil Abed took the Winger Speech to heart and upon returning to his reality decided to try to brighten his own timeline instead of trying to darken others. However, Evil Jeff at the same time embraced his dark side and took control of the remaining Evil Study Group. Evil Troy turned his back on his now reformed best friend and joined Evil Jeff in his campaign to destroy the "Prime Timeline". When Evil Jeff crossed over, he used a special paintball gun to send "Prime Timeline" Abed to his world. While in the Darkest Timeline, Abed sought out his double. He found the formerly Evil Abed in his apartment who explained to him what occurred since their last encounter. Along with a DVD of all six seasons of his world's "The Cape", the Darkest Timeline Abed gave his double a means to return to his reality. He also gave him paintball equipment to combat the Evil Study group. ("Advanced Introduction to Finality") After renouncing his evil ways, he is just Abed now. Gallery[] Trivia[] Inspiration[] Evil Abed, The Darkest Timeline, and the black beards are directly inspired by the Mirror universe concept in the Star Trek franchise. First introduced in the original series episode "Mirror, Mirror" it features the main characters visiting a parallel world filled with evil doppelgängers of themselves and Spock's double is sporting a beard. Quotes[] "Remedial Chaos Theory": “From now on, I am Evil Abed. We are the Evil Study group, and we have but one evil goal: return somehow to the Prime Timeline, the one that I stopped you from rolling that die. Then we destroy the good versions of ourselves and reclaim our proper lives.”— Evil Abed "Introduction to Finality": “When the world gets bad enough, Abed, the good go crazy, but the smart.they go bad.”— Evil Abed “Cruel.cruel, cruel, cruel.”— Evil Abed “Do you know what kind of person becomes a psychologist, Britta? A person that wishes deep down that everyone more special than them is sick because healthy sounds so much more exciting than boring. You're average, Britta Perry. You're every kid on the playground that didn't get picked on. You're a business casual potted plant, a human white sale, you're VH-1, Robocop 2 and Back To the Future 3, you're the center slice to a square cheese pizza. actually that sounds delicious. I'm the center slice to a square cheese pizza.You're Jim Belushi. ”— Evil Abed v·d·eCharactersGreendale StudentsThe Study GroupJeff Winger · Britta Perry · Abed Nadir · Shirley Bennett · Troy Barnes · Pierce Hawthorne · Annie EdisonPairingsJeff and Britta · Troy and Abed · Jeff and AnnieTroy and Britta · Annie and Abed · Jeff and Shirley · Troy and Annie · Shirley and Pierce · Jeff and Abed · Britta and Annie · Pierce and Abed · Annie and Vaughn · Abed and Rachel · Jeff and Pierce · Jeff and Troy · Shirley and Andre · Jeff and Slater · Carl and RichieRecurring studentsAlex "Star-Burns" Osbourne · Leonard Rodriguez · Garrett Lambert · Fat Neil · Vicki Jenkins · Magnitude · Quendra · Todd Jacobson · Vaughn Miller · Rich Stephenson · Stoner friend · Pavel Iwaszkiewicz · Rachel · Eric WisniewskiJenny Adams · Angela · Buddy Austin · Mark Cahill · Carol · Mike Chilada · Claire · Kelly Cortlandt · Archie DeCoste · Derrick · Doreen · Joey Elkins · Buzz Foster · Linda Greene · MC Dan Harmon · Harry Jefferson · Juergen · Karl · Kat · Annie Kim · Lukas · Lukka · Kim McFadden · Meghan · Mark Millot · Page · Reinhold · Sabrina Shmuckle · Subway · Scott Waugh · Wu Mei · Koogler · DaveSeason One minor characters · Season Two minor characters · Season Three minor characters · Season Four minor characters · Season Five minor characters · Season Six minor charactersActivities and CliquesThe Study Group · The Greendale Gooffaws · The Germans · The High Schoolers · The Hipsters · Some Worries · Glee Club · Natalie Is FreezingGreendale EmployeesAdministrationDean Craig Pelton · Vice Dean Robert Laybourne · Carl Bladt · Richie Countee · Francesca "Frankie" DartFacultyBen Chang · Professor June Bauer · Coach Bogner · Professor Bublitz · Coach Jason Chapman · Professor Cligoris · Professor Noel Cornwallis · Dr. Ian Duncan · Dr. Escodera · Professor Sean Garrity · Professor Buzz Hickey · Professor Holly · Dr. Patrick Isakson · Dr. Marshall Kane · Madame LeClair · Cory Radison · Professor Sheffield · Professor Michelle Slater · Admiral Lee Slaughter · Eustice Whitman · Jeff Winger · Professor Albrecht · Roger DeSalvoStaffGreendale Human Being · Gail · Nurse Jackie · Lunch Lady · Mariah · Nicole · Waldron · Debra Chambers · Elroy Patashnik · RhondaCampus SecuritySgt. Nunez · Troy and Abed look-a-likes · Changlourious Basterds · Joshua (Changlourious Basterds)Custodial StaffJerry · Joshua · Lapari · Crazy Schmidt · Bob WaiteOff-CampusRelativesWilliam Winger · Willy Jr. · Marcus · Gobi Nadir · Abra · Andre Bennett · Elijah Bennett · Jordan Bennett · Ben Bennett · Elijah and Jordan · Nana Barnes · Pierce's mom · Cornelius Hawthorne · Gilbert Lawson · Amber · Rabbi Chang · Alessandra Chang · Hank Hickey · Anthony EdisonLt. Colonel Norbert Archwood · Balloon guide · Blade · Brian · Officer Cackowski · Chantelle Cahill · Alan Connor · The Doppel Gang · Faux-by · Dr. Heidi · Jesus · Ken Kedan · Lauren · Señor Kevin's manager · Mark · Mountain man · Mysti · Nurse · Rick · Mr. Stone · Ted · Toby the pizza guy · Urbana Champaign · Vinnie · Agent Robin Vohlers · Toby Weeks · Subway rep · Ronald Mohammad · Honda boss · MurrayCity CollegeDean Stephen Spreck · Jeremy Simmons · Billy · The Black Rider · City College Storm TroopersAnimalsAnnie's Boobs · Britta's cats · Billy · Fievel · Turtle · RufflesMeta-fictionalKickpuncher · Hilda ·Inspector SpacetimeThe Inspector · Constable Reggie · BlorgonsCelebritiesLeVar Burton · Luis Guzman · Sophie B. HawkinsAlter egosTiny Man · Alter-Pierce · Greendale Babies · Boob-A-Tron · Pillow Man · Ass Crack BanditChristmas ToysBritta Bot · Ballerannie · Jeff-in-the-box · Baby Doll Shirley · Teddy Pierce · Troy Soldier · Christmas Wizard · Christmas PterodactylThe Darkest TimelineEvil Abed · Evil Jeff · Evil Annie · Evil Troy · Evil Shirley · Evil Britta · Evil PierceG.I.JoeWingman · Buzzkill · Tight Ship · Fourth Wall · Three Kids · Overkill · Xim Xam · Major Dick · Vice Cobra Assistant Commander Visitor Pass Abed Nadir Alternate counterpart of Abed (Prime Timeline) Portrayed by: Danny Pudi First appearance: "Remedial Chaos Theory" Last appearance: "Advanced Introduction to Finality" Home town: The Darkest Timeline Occupation: Reformed Evil genius Evil origin: Feels responsible for not stopping the die Visitor Pass “Cruel. Cruel, cruel, cruel. ” — Evil Abed, "Introduction to Finality". Cruel. Cruel, cruel, cruel. Evil Abed portrayed by Danny Pudi. Character history[] Season Three[] From now on I am Evil Abed. Evil Abed POV. The end of Evil Abed. Season Four[] After renouncing his evil ways, he is just Abed now. Inspiration[] Evil Abed, The Darkest Timeline, and the black beards are directly inspired by the Mirror universe concept in the Star Trek franchise. First introduced in the original series episode "Mirror, Mirror" it features the main characters visiting a parallel world filled with evil doppelgängers of themselves and Spock's double is sporting a beard. "Remedial Chaos Theory": "Introduction to Finality": Greendale Students Greendale Employees Meta-fictional Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted.