Source: https://blogs.loc.gov/headlinesandheroes/2024/03/eclipsed-no-more-women-astronomers-you-should-know/
Title: Eclipsed No More: Women Astronomers You Should Know | Headlines & Heroes
Words: 2892

================================================================================

“First, no woman should say, ‘I am but a woman!’ But a woman! What more can you ask to be?” – Maria Mitchell (1818-1889), American Astronomer Meteor showers, comets, eclipses, and other celestial events have captured human interest and imagination for thousands of years. Astronomical phenomena have long been speculated over in the press, and curiosity in these phenomena have led us to better understand our world. Throughout history women have played a pivotal role in the field of astronomy and yet have rarely received the recognition they deserve. As in many fields, women’s work has often been eclipsed by their male counterparts or attributed to the institution they were affiliated with. As astronomy became professionalized, women were generally denied the required formal education to be considered a professional astronomer. Whether or not they were able to obtain a degree in the field, women’s stellar contributions to astronomy should not be overlooked. In honor of women’s history month, let’s learn about some lesser-known achievements of women in astronomy throughout the years. The San Francisco Call, August 23, 1908. Women have made many important discoveries and historic firsts in the field of astronomy. The first woman known to have discovered a comet was Maria Margarethe Kirch in 1702, but credit was initially given to her husband. Caroline Herschel (Germany) discovered 8 comets between 1786 and 1797, and yet newspapers often described Caroline as her brother’s assistant and argued that she, “had no ambition but to serve him.” The first American of any gender to detect and map a comet was Maria Mitchell in 1847, and the comet came to be known as Miss Mitchell’s Comet. In 1865, Maria Mitchell was appointed as a Professor of Astronomy and the Director of the Vassar College Observatory. One of Mitchell’s assistants at Vassar was Margaretta Palmer, who was later hired by the Yale University Observatory and in 1892 became one of the first women admitted to the Yale Graduate School. The subject of Palmer’s doctoral research was Miss Mitchell’s comet. Women’s ability to practice astronomy professionally grew as more educational institutions began to gradually accept them as workers, scientists and students. Women at the Observatory Beverly Banner (Beverly, N.J.), April 9, 1926. The popularity of the film Hidden Figures drew attention to the women working as computers in the Harvard College Observatory. According to Harvard, the observatory began hiring women around 1875, but there were women who volunteered even earlier. An 1893 article described how Nina (Williamina) Fleming supervised, “…a corps of trained women assistants” at the Harvard Observatory. During her time at Harvard, Fleming discovered many stars and became the first known person to discover a white dwarf. Deaf astronomer Annie Jump Cannon continued Fleming’s work at Harvard of classifying stars, and would go on to record “more than a quarter million twinklers,” or roughly 350,000 stars. Building on the earlier classification work of Fleming, Annie Jump Cannon completed the Harvard Spectral Classification scheme, which was officially adopted by the International Astronomical Union in 1922 and is still in use today. The San Francisco Call (San Francisco, Calif.), October 7, 1900 Harvard wasn’t the first or only observatory to employ women. Alice Lamb worked as an assistant astronomer and was partially in charge of the Washburn Observatory in Wisconsin. Dr. Paris Pismis, widely considered the first professional astronomer in Mexico worked at the Tacubaya National Observatory and in 1955 founded the astrophysics program at the National Autonomous University of Mexico. The U.S. Naval Observatory hired Isabel M. Lewis and Eleanor A. Lamson long before women were even allowed to enroll at the U.S. Naval Academy. The Washington Times (Washington, D.C.), April 28, 1930. The Yerkes Observatory employed over one hundred women, and Dr. Nancy Roman conducted research there during her time as a graduate student at the University of Chicago. Nancy would go on to work for NASA and become known as the “Mother of Hubble” for her tireless work in getting approval for the Hubble Telescope to be built. NASA found a way to honor her incredible efforts, and the Nancy Grace Roman Space Telescope is currently set to launch in 2027. Whether they were running an observatory, chasing an eclipse, or simply receiving an education, women in astronomy have defied conventional gender roles to shape and expand the field. Can’t wait for the next celestial event? Why not pass the time by reading “What Science Discovered from the Great Eclipse” by Isabel M. Lewis? We also recommend diving in to Annie Jump Cannon’s series of articles detailing the science behind the total solar eclipse of 1932, Part One, Part Two and Part Three. Discover more about the history of women in astronomy in historic newspapers on Chronicling America, or get in touch with our librarians and collection specialists via Ask a Librarian. Explore More: Enjoy more Library of Congress Blog posts about astronomy, like Chasing Shadows: Eclipses and Eclipse Observations in the Library of Congress Collections — Inside Adams Take a tour of the Maria Mitchell Observatory in the Historic American Buildings Survey/Historic American Engineering Record/Historic American Landscapes Survey Collection Search loc.gov to discover photographs of observatories from all over the world Sources Consulted: Margaretta Palmer ‘1887. Vassar Encyclopedia, Distinguished Alumni. Maria Mitchell: America’s First Female Astronomer. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, March 1, 2023. Women at the Harvard College Observatory. Wolbach Library, Harvard University. Wisconsin at the Frontiers of Astronomy: A History of Innovaiton and Exploration. Peter Susalla and James Lattis, University of Wisconsin-Madison. Nancy Grace Roman Space Telescope. NASA. Women at Yerkes. University of Chicago. “First, no woman should say, ‘I am but a woman!’ But a woman! What more can you ask to be?” – Maria Mitchell (1818-1889), American Astronomer Meteor showers, comets, eclipses, and other celestial events have captured human interest and imagination for thousands of years. Astronomical phenomena have long been speculated over in the press, and curiosity in these phenomena have led us to better understand our world. Throughout history women have played a pivotal role in the field of astronomy and yet have rarely received the recognition they deserve. As in many fields, women’s work has often been eclipsed by their male counterparts or attributed to the institution they were affiliated with. As astronomy became professionalized, women were generally denied the required formal education to be considered a professional astronomer. Whether or not they were able to obtain a degree in the field, women’s stellar contributions to astronomy should not be overlooked. In honor of women’s history month, let’s learn about some lesser-known achievements of women in astronomy throughout the years. Women have made many important discoveries and historic firsts in the field of astronomy. The first woman known to have discovered a comet was Maria Margarethe Kirch in 1702, but credit was initially given to her husband. Caroline Herschel (Germany) discovered 8 comets between 1786 and 1797, and yet newspapers often described Caroline as her brother’s assistant and argued that she, “had no ambition but to serve him.” The first American of any gender to detect and map a comet was Maria Mitchell in 1847, and the comet came to be known as Miss Mitchell’s Comet. In 1865, Maria Mitchell was appointed as a Professor of Astronomy and the Director of the Vassar College Observatory. One of Mitchell’s assistants at Vassar was Margaretta Palmer, who was later hired by the Yale University Observatory and in 1892 became one of the first women admitted to the Yale Graduate School. The subject of Palmer’s doctoral research was Miss Mitchell’s comet. Women’s ability to practice astronomy professionally grew as more educational institutions began to gradually accept them as workers, scientists and students. Women at the Observatory The popularity of the film Hidden Figures drew attention to the women working as computers in the Harvard College Observatory. According to Harvard, the observatory began hiring women around 1875, but there were women who volunteered even earlier. An 1893 article described how Nina (Williamina) Fleming supervised, “…a corps of trained women assistants” at the Harvard Observatory. During her time at Harvard, Fleming discovered many stars and became the first known person to discover a white dwarf. Deaf astronomer Annie Jump Cannon continued Fleming’s work at Harvard of classifying stars, and would go on to record “more than a quarter million twinklers,” or roughly 350,000 stars. Building on the earlier classification work of Fleming, Annie Jump Cannon completed the Harvard Spectral Classification scheme, which was officially adopted by the International Astronomical Union in 1922 and is still in use today. Harvard wasn’t the first or only observatory to employ women. Alice Lamb worked as an assistant astronomer and was partially in charge of the Washburn Observatory in Wisconsin. Dr. Paris Pismis, widely considered the first professional astronomer in Mexico worked at the Tacubaya National Observatory and in 1955 founded the astrophysics program at the National Autonomous University of Mexico. The U.S. Naval Observatory hired Isabel M. Lewis and Eleanor A. Lamson long before women were even allowed to enroll at the U.S. Naval Academy. The Yerkes Observatory employed over one hundred women, and Dr. Nancy Roman conducted research there during her time as a graduate student at the University of Chicago. Nancy would go on to work for NASA and become known as the “Mother of Hubble” for her tireless work in getting approval for the Hubble Telescope to be built. NASA found a way to honor her incredible efforts, and the Nancy Grace Roman Space Telescope is currently set to launch in 2027. Whether they were running an observatory, chasing an eclipse, or simply receiving an education, women in astronomy have defied conventional gender roles to shape and expand the field. Can’t wait for the next celestial event? Why not pass the time by reading “What Science Discovered from the Great Eclipse” by Isabel M. Lewis? We also recommend diving in to Annie Jump Cannon’s series of articles detailing the science behind the total solar eclipse of 1932, Part One, Part Two and Part Three. Discover more about the history of women in astronomy in historic newspapers on Chronicling America, or get in touch with our librarians and collection specialists via Ask a Librarian. Explore More: Enjoy more Library of Congress Blog posts about astronomy, like Chasing Shadows: Eclipses and Eclipse Observations in the Library of Congress Collections — Inside Adams Take a tour of the Maria Mitchell Observatory in the Historic American Buildings Survey/Historic American Engineering Record/Historic American Landscapes Survey Collection Search loc.gov to discover photographs of observatories from all over the world Sources Consulted: Margaretta Palmer ‘1887. Vassar Encyclopedia, Distinguished Alumni. Maria Mitchell: America’s First Female Astronomer. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, March 1, 2023. Women at the Harvard College Observatory. Wolbach Library, Harvard University. Wisconsin at the Frontiers of Astronomy: A History of Innovaiton and Exploration. Peter Susalla and James Lattis, University of Wisconsin-Madison. Nancy Grace Roman Space Telescope. NASA. Women at Yerkes. University of Chicago. Comments (7) exness says: June 9, 2024 at 12:22 pm This blog was… how do I say it? Relevant!! Finally I’ve found something which helped me. Cheers! exness says: June 9, 2024 at 12:22 pm This blog was… how do I say it? Relevant!! Finally I’ve found something which helped me. Cheers! exness says: June 9, 2024 at 12:22 pm exness says: This blog was… how do I say it? Relevant!! Finally I’ve found something which helped me. Cheers! Sethanne Howard says: June 9, 2024 at 5:01 pm The earliest astronomer whose name and works we know live C 2334 BCE in the city of Ur. She was the ‘En’ of the city. ‘En’ is Sumerian means leader. Her name was En Hedu’Anna. Many of her writings have been translated and are available on line. She was the chief astronomer priestess of the city as well as over 30 other cities in the area. She maintained the lunar calendar and identified the “morning star” and “evening star” as the same object as well as a planet. Much of her writing identifies her as as one of first real philosophers, long before Plato. Sethanne Howard says: June 9, 2024 at 5:01 pm The earliest astronomer whose name and works we know live C 2334 BCE in the city of Ur. She was the ‘En’ of the city. ‘En’ is Sumerian means leader. Her name was En Hedu’Anna. Many of her writings have been translated and are available on line. She was the chief astronomer priestess of the city as well as over 30 other cities in the area. She maintained the lunar calendar and identified the “morning star” and “evening star” as the same object as well as a planet. Much of her writing identifies her as as one of first real philosophers, long before Plato. Sethanne Howard says: June 9, 2024 at 5:01 pm Sethanne Howard says: The earliest astronomer whose name and works we know live C 2334 BCE in the city of Ur. She was the ‘En’ of the city. ‘En’ is Sumerian means leader. Her name was En Hedu’Anna. Many of her writings have been translated and are available on line. She was the chief astronomer priestess of the city as well as over 30 other cities in the area. She maintained the lunar calendar and identified the “morning star” and “evening star” as the same object as well as a planet. Much of her writing identifies her as as one of first real philosophers, long before Plato. pocketoption says: June 12, 2024 at 2:29 pm Hi there, I enjoy reading through your article post. I like to write a little comment to support you. pocketoption says: June 12, 2024 at 2:29 pm Hi there, I enjoy reading through your article post. I like to write a little comment to support you. pocketoption says: June 12, 2024 at 2:29 pm pocketoption says: Hi there, I enjoy reading through your article post. I like to write a little comment to support you. エクスネス mt4 ダウンロード says: June 12, 2024 at 6:57 pm I could not refrain from commenting. Well written! エクスネス mt4 ダウンロード says: June 12, 2024 at 6:57 pm I could not refrain from commenting. Well written! エクスネス mt4 ダウンロード says: June 12, 2024 at 6:57 pm エクスネス mt4 ダウンロード says: I could not refrain from commenting. Well written! exness broker says: June 13, 2024 at 3:34 am Very nice post. I just stumbled upon your weblog and wanted to say that I have truly enjoyed surfing around your blog posts. In any case I will be subscribing to your feed and I hope you write again soon! exness broker says: June 13, 2024 at 3:34 am Very nice post. I just stumbled upon your weblog and wanted to say that I have truly enjoyed surfing around your blog posts. In any case I will be subscribing to your feed and I hope you write again soon! exness broker says: June 13, 2024 at 3:34 am exness broker says: Very nice post. I just stumbled upon your weblog and wanted to say that I have truly enjoyed surfing around your blog posts. In any case I will be subscribing to your feed and I hope you write again soon! exness says: June 19, 2024 at 6:07 pm Thanks for a marvelous posting! I really enjoyed reading it, you could be a great author.I will be sure to bookmark your blog and definitely will come back very soon. I want to encourage one to continue your great writing, have a nice weekend! exness says: June 19, 2024 at 6:07 pm Thanks for a marvelous posting! I really enjoyed reading it, you could be a great author.I will be sure to bookmark your blog and definitely will come back very soon. I want to encourage one to continue your great writing, have a nice weekend! exness says: June 19, 2024 at 6:07 pm exness says: Thanks for a marvelous posting! I really enjoyed reading it, you could be a great author.I will be sure to bookmark your blog and definitely will come back very soon. I want to encourage one to continue your great writing, have a nice weekend! exness says: June 24, 2024 at 2:41 pm I think this is among the most important info for me. And i’m glad reading your article. But should remark on few general things, The site style is perfect, the articles is really nice : D. Good job, cheers exness says: June 24, 2024 at 2:41 pm I think this is among the most important info for me. And i’m glad reading your article. But should remark on few general things, The site style is perfect, the articles is really nice : D. Good job, cheers exness says: June 24, 2024 at 2:41 pm exness says: I think this is among the most important info for me. And i’m glad reading your article. But should remark on few general things, The site style is perfect, the articles is really nice : D. Good job, cheers See All Comments Add a Comment Cancel replyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Name (no commercial URLs) * Email (will not be published) * Comment: Δ Add a Comment Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Name (no commercial URLs) * Email (will not be published) *