Source: http://www.martin-blanck.com/bio_ronald-blanck.php
Title: Martin, Blanck & Associates- Federal Healthcare & Government Consultants
Words: 2010

================================================================================

2034 Eisenhower Ave, Suite 270 Alexandria VA 22314 703-575-6042 Leadership@martin-blanck.com Our Management Our Partners WHO WE ARE Ronald Blanck, DO, MACP, LTG (Ret) USA Chairman Major Areas of Expertise: Health care strategy development and executive business planning and execution Military personnel issues, including healthcare policies and programs Summary of Career Accomplishments: In June 2009, Ronald (Ron) Blanck was named Chairman of Martin, Blanck & Associates. Prior to joining the firm, Dr. Blanck served as president of the University of North Texas Health Science Center at Fort Worth until June 2006. There he oversaw a growing academic health center that includes the Texas College of Osteopathic Medicine, Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences, School of Public Health and School of Health Professions. Dr. Blanck began his military career in 1968 as a medical officer and battalion surgeon in Vietnam. He retired 32 years later as a Lieutenant General and Surgeon General of the U.S. Army and commander of the U.S. Army Medical Command, with more than 46,000 military personnel and 26,000 civilian employees throughout the world. During his distinguished military career, Dr. Blanck also served as commander of Walter Reed Medical Center North Atlantic Region Medical Command and director of professional services and chief of Medical Corps Affairs for the U.S. Army Surgeon General. Other assignments included assistant chief of the General Medicine Service in the Department of Medicine at Walter Reed, assistant dean of student affairs at the Uniformed Services University School of Medicine and chief of the Department of Medicine at Brooke Army Medical Center. Additional Qualifications and Memberships: Dr. Blanck's academic credentials include holding teaching positions at Georgetown University, George Washington University, Howard University School of Medicine, The Uniformed Services University, the University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, and the University of North Texas Health Science Center. He received a Bachelor of Science from Juniata College in Huntingdon, Pennsylvania, and a Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine from the Philadelphia College of Osteopathic Medicine. He is board certified in internal medicine and has been recognized as a Master by the American College of Medicine. His military honors include Distinguished Service Medals, the Defense Superior Service Medal, the Legion of Merit, the Bronze Star and Meritorious Service and Army Commendation Medals. Martin, Blanck & Associates: Martin, Blanck & Associates is a healthcare consulting firm based in Alexandria, Virginia. Martin Blanck provides critical assistance to private sector clients focused on federal healthcare delivery systems and services and public health programs. The firm has more than two dozen senior executive partners with expertise in healthcare policy, program development, executive management, strategic planning, informatics, medical countermeasures research and development addressing chemical, biological and radiological threats, public health strategies, and emerging infectious diseases. Martin, Blanck & Associates Senior Partners Nancy Adams Dixie Baker Elizabeth Barrows Richard Bohrer Daniel L. Cohen Randall Culpepper Edward Eitzen Kate Eltzroth Lawrence V. McBean Keith L. Moore Fred Pang Michelle C. Ross Artie L. Shelton James W. Terbush Donald L. Weaver © All rights reserved by Martin, Blanck & Associates 2034 Eisenhower Ave, Suite 270 Alexandria VA 22314 703-575-6042 Leadership@martin-blanck.com 2034 Eisenhower Ave, Suite 270 Alexandria VA 22314 703-575-6042 Leadership@martin-blanck.com Our Management Our Partners Our Management Our Partners Our Management Our Partners WHO WE ARE Ronald Blanck, DO, MACP, LTG (Ret) USA Chairman Major Areas of Expertise: Health care strategy development and executive business planning and execution Military personnel issues, including healthcare policies and programs Summary of Career Accomplishments: In June 2009, Ronald (Ron) Blanck was named Chairman of Martin, Blanck & Associates. Prior to joining the firm, Dr. Blanck served as president of the University of North Texas Health Science Center at Fort Worth until June 2006. There he oversaw a growing academic health center that includes the Texas College of Osteopathic Medicine, Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences, School of Public Health and School of Health Professions. Dr. Blanck began his military career in 1968 as a medical officer and battalion surgeon in Vietnam. He retired 32 years later as a Lieutenant General and Surgeon General of the U.S. Army and commander of the U.S. Army Medical Command, with more than 46,000 military personnel and 26,000 civilian employees throughout the world. During his distinguished military career, Dr. Blanck also served as commander of Walter Reed Medical Center North Atlantic Region Medical Command and director of professional services and chief of Medical Corps Affairs for the U.S. Army Surgeon General. Other assignments included assistant chief of the General Medicine Service in the Department of Medicine at Walter Reed, assistant dean of student affairs at the Uniformed Services University School of Medicine and chief of the Department of Medicine at Brooke Army Medical Center. Additional Qualifications and Memberships: Dr. Blanck's academic credentials include holding teaching positions at Georgetown University, George Washington University, Howard University School of Medicine, The Uniformed Services University, the University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, and the University of North Texas Health Science Center. He received a Bachelor of Science from Juniata College in Huntingdon, Pennsylvania, and a Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine from the Philadelphia College of Osteopathic Medicine. He is board certified in internal medicine and has been recognized as a Master by the American College of Medicine. His military honors include Distinguished Service Medals, the Defense Superior Service Medal, the Legion of Merit, the Bronze Star and Meritorious Service and Army Commendation Medals. Martin, Blanck & Associates: Martin, Blanck & Associates is a healthcare consulting firm based in Alexandria, Virginia. Martin Blanck provides critical assistance to private sector clients focused on federal healthcare delivery systems and services and public health programs. The firm has more than two dozen senior executive partners with expertise in healthcare policy, program development, executive management, strategic planning, informatics, medical countermeasures research and development addressing chemical, biological and radiological threats, public health strategies, and emerging infectious diseases. Martin, Blanck & Associates Senior Partners Nancy Adams Dixie Baker Elizabeth Barrows Richard Bohrer Daniel L. Cohen Randall Culpepper Edward Eitzen Kate Eltzroth Lawrence V. McBean Keith L. Moore Fred Pang Michelle C. Ross Artie L. Shelton James W. Terbush Donald L. Weaver WHO WE ARE Ronald Blanck, DO, MACP, LTG (Ret) USA Chairman Major Areas of Expertise: Health care strategy development and executive business planning and execution Military personnel issues, including healthcare policies and programs Summary of Career Accomplishments: In June 2009, Ronald (Ron) Blanck was named Chairman of Martin, Blanck & Associates. Prior to joining the firm, Dr. Blanck served as president of the University of North Texas Health Science Center at Fort Worth until June 2006. There he oversaw a growing academic health center that includes the Texas College of Osteopathic Medicine, Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences, School of Public Health and School of Health Professions. Dr. Blanck began his military career in 1968 as a medical officer and battalion surgeon in Vietnam. He retired 32 years later as a Lieutenant General and Surgeon General of the U.S. Army and commander of the U.S. Army Medical Command, with more than 46,000 military personnel and 26,000 civilian employees throughout the world. During his distinguished military career, Dr. Blanck also served as commander of Walter Reed Medical Center North Atlantic Region Medical Command and director of professional services and chief of Medical Corps Affairs for the U.S. Army Surgeon General. Other assignments included assistant chief of the General Medicine Service in the Department of Medicine at Walter Reed, assistant dean of student affairs at the Uniformed Services University School of Medicine and chief of the Department of Medicine at Brooke Army Medical Center. Additional Qualifications and Memberships: Dr. Blanck's academic credentials include holding teaching positions at Georgetown University, George Washington University, Howard University School of Medicine, The Uniformed Services University, the University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, and the University of North Texas Health Science Center. He received a Bachelor of Science from Juniata College in Huntingdon, Pennsylvania, and a Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine from the Philadelphia College of Osteopathic Medicine. He is board certified in internal medicine and has been recognized as a Master by the American College of Medicine. His military honors include Distinguished Service Medals, the Defense Superior Service Medal, the Legion of Merit, the Bronze Star and Meritorious Service and Army Commendation Medals. Martin, Blanck & Associates: Martin, Blanck & Associates is a healthcare consulting firm based in Alexandria, Virginia. Martin Blanck provides critical assistance to private sector clients focused on federal healthcare delivery systems and services and public health programs. The firm has more than two dozen senior executive partners with expertise in healthcare policy, program development, executive management, strategic planning, informatics, medical countermeasures research and development addressing chemical, biological and radiological threats, public health strategies, and emerging infectious diseases. Ronald Blanck, DO, MACP, LTG (Ret) USA Chairman Major Areas of Expertise: Health care strategy development and executive business planning and execution Military personnel issues, including healthcare policies and programs Summary of Career Accomplishments: In June 2009, Ronald (Ron) Blanck was named Chairman of Martin, Blanck & Associates. Prior to joining the firm, Dr. Blanck served as president of the University of North Texas Health Science Center at Fort Worth until June 2006. There he oversaw a growing academic health center that includes the Texas College of Osteopathic Medicine, Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences, School of Public Health and School of Health Professions. Dr. Blanck began his military career in 1968 as a medical officer and battalion surgeon in Vietnam. He retired 32 years later as a Lieutenant General and Surgeon General of the U.S. Army and commander of the U.S. Army Medical Command, with more than 46,000 military personnel and 26,000 civilian employees throughout the world. During his distinguished military career, Dr. Blanck also served as commander of Walter Reed Medical Center North Atlantic Region Medical Command and director of professional services and chief of Medical Corps Affairs for the U.S. Army Surgeon General. Other assignments included assistant chief of the General Medicine Service in the Department of Medicine at Walter Reed, assistant dean of student affairs at the Uniformed Services University School of Medicine and chief of the Department of Medicine at Brooke Army Medical Center. Additional Qualifications and Memberships: Dr. Blanck's academic credentials include holding teaching positions at Georgetown University, George Washington University, Howard University School of Medicine, The Uniformed Services University, the University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, and the University of North Texas Health Science Center. He received a Bachelor of Science from Juniata College in Huntingdon, Pennsylvania, and a Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine from the Philadelphia College of Osteopathic Medicine. He is board certified in internal medicine and has been recognized as a Master by the American College of Medicine. His military honors include Distinguished Service Medals, the Defense Superior Service Medal, the Legion of Merit, the Bronze Star and Meritorious Service and Army Commendation Medals. Martin, Blanck & Associates: Martin, Blanck & Associates is a healthcare consulting firm based in Alexandria, Virginia. Martin Blanck provides critical assistance to private sector clients focused on federal healthcare delivery systems and services and public health programs. The firm has more than two dozen senior executive partners with expertise in healthcare policy, program development, executive management, strategic planning, informatics, medical countermeasures research and development addressing chemical, biological and radiological threats, public health strategies, and emerging infectious diseases. Martin, Blanck & Associates Senior Partners Nancy Adams Dixie Baker Elizabeth Barrows Richard Bohrer Daniel L. Cohen Randall Culpepper Edward Eitzen Kate Eltzroth Lawrence V. McBean Keith L. Moore Fred Pang Michelle C. Ross Artie L. Shelton James W. Terbush Donald L. Weaver Martin, Blanck & Associates Senior Partners Nancy Adams Dixie Baker Elizabeth Barrows Richard Bohrer Daniel L. Cohen Randall Culpepper Edward Eitzen Kate Eltzroth Lawrence V. McBean Keith L. Moore Fred Pang Michelle C. Ross Artie L. Shelton James W. Terbush Donald L. Weaver Dixie Baker Elizabeth Barrows Richard Bohrer Daniel L. Cohen Randall Culpepper Edward Eitzen Kate Eltzroth Lawrence V. McBean Keith L. Moore Michelle C. Ross Artie L. Shelton James W. Terbush Donald L. Weaver © All rights reserved by Martin, Blanck & Associates