Source: https://ballotpedia.org/Natasha_Merle
Title: Natasha Merle - Ballotpedia
Words: 11859

================================================================================

Your feedback ensures we stay focused on the facts that matter to you most—take our survey. Your feedback ensures we stay focused on the facts that matter to you most—take our survey. Your feedback ensures we stay focused on the facts that matter to you most—take our survey. Your feedback ensures we stay focused on the facts that matter to you most—take our survey. Natasha Merle From Ballotpedia Jump to: navigation, search Natasha Merle Nonpartisan United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York Tenure 2023 - Present Years in position 2 Education Bachelor's University of Texas at Austin, 2005 Law New York University Law School, 2008 Personal Birthplace Brunswick, Maine Contact Personal LinkedIn Natasha Merle is a judge on the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York. She was nominated to the court by President Joe Biden (D) on January 19, 2022, and confirmed by the United States Senate on June 21, 2023, by a vote of 50-49.[1][2][3][4][5][6] Merle was one of 235 Article III judges nominated by President Joe Biden (D) and confirmed by the U.S. Senate.To see a full list of judges appointed by Joe Biden, click here. The United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York is one of 94 U.S. District Courts. They are the general trial courts of the United States federal courts. To learn more about the court, click here. Merle's career experience includes working as the deputy director of litigation at the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, Inc.[2] Contents 1 Judicial nominations and appointments 1.1 United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York (2023-present) 1.1.1 Confirmation vote 1.1.2 Senate Judiciary Committee hearing 1.1.3 Nomination 2 Biography 2.1 Early life and education 2.2 Professional career 3 Associations 4 About the court 4.1 Jurisdiction 4.2 The federal nomination process 5 See also 6 External links 7 Footnotes Judicial nominations and appointments United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York (2023-present) See also: Federal judges nominated by Joe Biden On January 19, 2022, President Joe Biden (D) initially nominated Merle to the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York.[2][3] She was confirmed by a 50-49 vote of the U.S. Senate on June 21, 2023. Merle received commission on August 11, 2023.[1] To read more about the federal nominations process, click here. Nomination Tracker Nominee Information Name: Natasha Merle Court: United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York Progress Confirmed 518 days after nomination. ANominated: January 19, 2022 AABA Rating: Majority well qualified/Minority qualified Questionnaire: Questionnaire AHearing: April 27, 2022 QFRs: QFRs (Hover over QFRs to read more) AReported: May 26, 2022 (initial nomination)[7]/ February 9, 2023 (second nomination) AConfirmed: June 21, 2023 AVote: 50-49 Confirmation vote The U.S. Senate confirmed Merle by a vote of 50-49 vote on June 21, 2023.[1] To see a full breakdown of the vote on the official U.S. Senate website, click here. Natasha Merle confirmation vote (June 21, 2023) Party Yea Nay No vote Democratic 47 1 0 Republican 0 48 1 Independent 3 0 0 Total 50 49 1 Senate Judiciary Committee hearing The Senate Judiciary Committee held hearings on Merle's nomination on April 27, 2022. The committee voted to advance Merle's nomination to the full Senate on May 26, 2022.[3] In a committee hearing on February 2, 2023, the committee cast a tie vote to report Merle to the full United States Senate for a confirmation vote. As a result, she was not reported favorably to the full Senate.[6] In a committee hearing on February 9, 2023, Merle was reported to the full Senate, after a 11-10 committee vote.[5] Nomination On January 19, 2022, President Joe Biden (D) announced his intent to nominate Merle to the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York.[2] He officially nominated her on the same day.[3] Merle was nominated to fill an additional position created on the court in accordance with 28 U.S.C. 133(b)(1).[3] The American Bar Association rated Merle well qualified by a majority and qualified by a minority.[8] To read more about ABA ratings, click here. Merle's nomination was returned to the president at the sine die adjournment of the U.S. Senate on January 3, 2023.[9] The president renominated Merle on the same day.[1] Biography Early life and education Merle was born in Brunswick, Maine, in 1983. She earned a B.A., with honors, in political science and government from the University of Texas, Austin, in 2005 and a J.D., cum laude, from the New York University School of Law in 2008.[10][11] Professional career 2023-present: Judge, United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York 2016-2023: NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, Inc. 2021-2023: Deputy director of litigation 2018-2021: Senior counsel 2018: Assistant counsel 2016-2018: Fried Rank Fellow 2013-2015: Associate, Fried Frank 2012-2013: Law clerk to Judge John Gleeson, U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York 2011-2012: Assistant federal public defender, District of Arizona 2009-2011: Staff attorney, Gulf Region Advocacy Center 2008-2009: Law clerk to Judge Robert Carter, U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York[11] Associations American Bar Association Metropolitan Black Bar Association New York City Bar Association[10] About the court Eastern District of New York Second Circuit Judgeships Posts: 16 Judges: 16 Vacancies: 0 Judges Chief: Margo Brodie Active judges: Margo Brodie, Gary R. Brown, Sanket Bulsara, Pamela Ki Mai Chen, Nusrat Choudhury, LaShann Moutique DeArcy Hall, Ann M. Donnelly, Hector Gonzalez, Diane Gujarati, Eric Komitee, Rachel Kovner, Roslynn Mauskopf, Orelia Merchant, Natasha Merle, Nina Morrison, Ramon Reyes Jr. Senior judges: Carol Amon, Joan Azrack, Frederic Block, Brian Cogan, Raymond Dearie, Nicholas Garaufis, Nina Gershon, Leo Glasser, Denis Hurley, Dora Irizarry, Edward Korman, William Kuntz, Kiyo Matsumoto, Allyne Ross, Joanna Seybert, Eric Vitaliano The United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York is one of 94 United States district courts. The courthouses are located in Brooklyn and Central Islip. When decisions of the court are appealed, they are appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit based in Lower Manhattan at the Daniel Patrick Moynihan Federal Courthouse. Jurisdiction The Eastern District of New York has original jurisdiction over cases filed within its jurisdiction. These cases can include civil and criminal matters that fall under federal law. The geographic jurisdiction of the Eastern District of New York consists of all the following counties in the eastern part of the state of New York. Kings County Queens County Richmond County Nassau County Suffolk County The federal nomination process Federal judges are nominated by the president of the United States and confirmed by the Senate. There are multiple steps to the process: The president nominates an individual for a judicial seat. The nominee fills out a questionnaire and is reviewed by the Senate Judiciary Committee. The Senate Judiciary Committee holds a hearing with the nominee, questioning them about things like their judicial philosophy, past rulings or opinions, etc. As part of this process, the committee sends a blue slip to senators from the home state in which the judicial nomination was received, allowing them to express their approval or disapproval of the nominee. After the hearing, the Senate Judiciary Committee will vote to approve or return the nominee. If approved, the nominee is voted on by the full Senate. If the Committee votes to return the nominee to the president, the president has the opportunity to re-nominate the individual. The Senate holds a vote on the candidate. If the Senate confirms the nomination, the nominee receives a commission to serve a lifelong position as a federal judge. If the Senate does not confirm the nomination, that nominee does not become a judge. See also United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York United States Court of Appeals for the 2nd Circuit External links Suggest a link Search Google News for this topic United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York United States Court of Appeals for the 2nd Circuit Biography from the Federal Judicial Center Footnotes ↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 Congress.gov, "PN82 — Natasha C. Merle — The Judiciary," accessed January 4, 2023 ↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 The White House, "President Biden Names Thirteenth Round of Judicial Nominees," January 19, 2022 ↑ 3.0 3.1 3.2 3.3 3.4 Congress.gov, "PN1686 — Natasha C. Merle — The Judiciary," accessed January 20, 2022 ↑ The White House, "Nominations Sent to the Senate," January 19, 2022 ↑ 5.0 5.1 Committee on the Judiciary, "Results of Executive Business Meeting – February 9, 2023," accessed February 9, 2023 ↑ 6.0 6.1 Committee on the Judiciary, "Results of Executive Business Meeting – February 2, 2023," accessed February 3, 2023 ↑ In a second committee hearing, Merle received a 10-10 tie committee vote and was not reported favorably to the full Senate. Click here for more details. ↑ American Bar Association, "Ratings of Article III and Article IV judicial nominees," accessed April 27, 2022 ↑ Under Senate Rule XXXI, paragraph 6 of the Standing Rules of the Senate, pending nominations are returned to the president if the Senate adjourns sine die or recesses for more than 30 days. ↑ 10.0 10.1 Senate Judiciary Committee, "Questionnaire for judicial nominees," accessed May 19, 2022 ↑ 11.0 11.1 LinkedIn, "Natasha Merle," accessed April 27, 2022 Political offices Preceded by - United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York 2023-Present Succeeded by - New York courts Federal courts: Second Circuit Court of Appeals • U.S. District Court: Eastern District of New York, Western District of New York, Northern District of New York, Southern District of New York • U.S. Bankruptcy Court: Eastern District of New York, Western District of New York, Northern District of New York, Southern District of New York State courts: New York Court of Appeals • New York Supreme Court, Appellate Division • New York Supreme Court • New York County Courts • New York City Courts • New York Town and Village Courts • New York Family Courts • New York Surrogates' Courts • New York City Civil Court • New York City Criminal Courts • New York Court of Claims • New York Problem Solving Courts State resources: Courts in New York • New York judicial elections • Judicial selection in New York v • eFederal judges who have served the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York Active judges Chief Judge: Margo Brodie • Roslynn Mauskopf • Ramon Reyes, Jr. • Ann M. Donnelly • Pamela Ki Mai Chen • Gary R. Brown (Federal judge) • LaShann Moutique DeArcy Hall • Diane Gujarati • Eric Komitee • Rachel Kovner • Sanket Bulsara • Hector Gonzalez (New York) • Nina Morrison • Nusrat Choudhury • Natasha Merle • Orelia Merchant Senior judges Raymond Dearie • Leo Glasser • Denis Hurley • Edward Korman • Carol Amon • Brian Cogan • Nicholas Garaufis • Nina Gershon • Dora Irizarry • Kiyo Matsumoto • Allyne Ross • Joanna Seybert • Eric Vitaliano • Joan Azrack • Frederic Block • William Kuntz • Magistrate judges Arlene Lindsay • Roanne Mann • Cheryl Pollak • Ramon Reyes, Jr. • Vera Scanlon • Steven Locke • Peggy Kuo • Steven Tiscione • Anne Shields • James Wicks • James R. Cho • Taryn A. Merkl • Marcia Henry • Former Article III judges Sterling Johnson • Thomas Platt • Charles Sifton • Arthur Spatt • David Trager • Jack Weinstein • Leonard Wexler • Joseph Bianco • Sandra Feuerstein • John Gleeson • Sandra Townes • Frank Altimari • Charles Linnaeus Benedict • Joseph McLaughlin (Second Circuit) • Reena Raggi • George Pratt • Asa Wentworth Tenney • Edward Beers Thomas • Thomas Chatfield • Van Vechten Veeder • Edwin Louis Garvin • Marcus Beach Campbell • Robert Alexander Inch • Grover Moscowitz • Mortimer Byers • Clarence Galston • Matthew Abruzzo • John Bartels • Frederic Block • Henry Bramwell • Walter Bruchhausen • Mark Costantino • John Dooling • Orrin Judd • Jacob Mishler • Edward Neaher • Eugene Nickerson • Leo Rayfiel • George Rosling • Anthony Travia • Joseph Zavatt • Harold Kennedy (New York) • Former Chief judges Raymond Dearie • Edward Korman • Thomas Platt • Charles Sifton • Jack Weinstein • Carol Amon • Dora Irizarry • Roslynn Mauskopf • Robert Alexander Inch • Walter Bruchhausen • Jacob Mishler • Joseph Zavatt • v • eFederal judges nominated to Article III courts by Joe Biden Commissioned in 2025 Keli Neary Commissioned in 2024 John Kazen • John Russell • Margaret Garnett • Cristal Brisco • Jacquelyn Austin • Gretchen Hess Lund • Micah Smith • Joshua Kolar • Karoline Mehalchick • Kirk Sherriff • Lisa Wang • David Leibowitz • Jacqueline Becerra • Julie Sneed • Melissa Damian • Kelly H. Rankin • Nicole Berner • Sunil Harjani • Leon Schydlower • Ernesto Gonzalez • Susan Bazis • Robert White • Ann Marie McIff Allen • Eumi Lee • Krissa Lanham • Eric Schulte • Camela Theeler • Angela Martinez • Jasmine Yoon • Nancy Maldonado • Meredith Vacca • Georgia Alexakis • Joseph Saporito • Amy Baggio • Stacey Neumann • Mary Kay Lanthier • Adam Abelson • Laura Provinzino • Mary Kay Costello • Dena Coggins • Kevin Ritz • Shanlyn A. S. Park • Byron Conway • Jeannette Vargas • Michelle Williams Court • Jonathan E. Hawley • April Perry • Mustafa Kasubhai • Sarah Russell • Amir Ali • Rebecca Pennell • Anthony Brindisi • Elizabeth Coombe • Cynthia Valenzuela • Anne Hwang • Brian Murphy • Noël Wise • Sanket Bulsara • Tiffany Johnson • Sparkle Sooknanan • Gail Weilheimer • Embry Kidd • Melissa DuBose • Sharad Desai • Serena R. Murillo • Benjamin Cheeks • Sarah Davenport Commissioned in 2023 Kai Scott • Tamika Montgomery-Reeves • Margaret R. Guzman • Daniel Calabretta • Matthew Garcia • DeAndrea G. Benjamin • Cindy Chung • Adrienne Nelson • Lindsay Jenkins • Gina Méndez-Miró • Araceli Martínez-Olguín • Jamar Walker • Ana Reyes • Jamal Whitehead • Gordon Gallagher • Matthew Brookman• Maria Araujo Kahn• James Simmons • Robert Ballou• Andrew Schopler • Jonathan Grey• Colleen Lawless • Arun Subramanian • Jessica Clarke • Robert Kirsch • Michael Farbiarz • Anthony Johnstone • Orelia Merchant • Wesley Hsu • Bradley Garcia • LaShonda A. Hunt • Nancy Gbana Abudu • Amanda Brailsford • Darrel Papillion • Jeremy Daniel • Hernan D. Vera • Julie Rikelman • Nusrat Choudhury • P. Casey Pitts • Myong Joun • Kymberly Evanson • Tiffany Cartwright • Rachel Bloomekatz • Natasha Merle • Dale Ho • Philip Hadji • Rita Lin • Brendan Hurson • Vernon D. Oliver • Matthew Maddox • Julia Munley • Brandy McMillion • Susan DeClercq • Julia Kobick • Ramon Reyes, Jr. • Ana de Alba • Kenly Kiya Kato • Mónica Ramírez Almadani • Jeffrey M. Bryan • Jamel Semper • Irma Ramirez • Richard Federico • Loren AliKhan • Brandon Long • Jerry Edwards Jr.• Sara Hill • Joseph LaroskiCommissioned in 2022 David Herrera Urias • Gabriel Sanchez • Holly Thomas • Maame Ewusi-Mensah Frimpong • David Ruiz • Charles Fleming • Bridget Brennan • Leonard Stark • Alison J. Nathan • John Chun • Julie Rubin • Jacqueline Scott Corley • Ruth Bermudez Montenegro • Victoria Calvert • Georgette Castner • Anne Traum • Cristina Silva • Ketanji Brown Jackson (Supreme Court) • Sarah Geraghty • Hector Gonzalez • Fred Slaughter • Jennifer Rochon • Robert Huie • Sunshine S. Sykes • Stephanie Dawkins Davis • Evelyn Padin • Sherilyn P. Garnett • Ana de Alba • J. Michelle Childs • Trina Thompson • Elizabeth Hanes • Nancy Maldonado • Nina Morrison • Gregory Williams • John Z. Lee • Sal Mendoza, Jr. • Lara Montecalvo • Florence Pan • Andre Mathis • Sarah A.L. Merriam • Jennifer Rearden • Roopali Desai • María Antongiorgi-Jordán • Camille Vélez-Rivé • Doris Pryor • Frances Kay Behm • Dana Douglas • Mia Roberts Perez • Anne Nardacci • Jeffery P. Hopkins Commissioned in 2021 Ketanji Brown Jackson • Zahid Quraishi • Julien Xavier Neals • Deborah Boardman • Regina Rodriguez • Candace Jackson-Akiwumi • Lydia Kay Griggsby • Tiffany Cunningham • Eunice Lee • Angel Kelley • Florence Pan • Veronica Rossman • David G. Estudillo • Sarah A.L. Merriam • Gustavo Gelpí • Christine O'Hearn • Margaret Strickland • Karen McGlashan Williams • Patricia Tolliver Giles • Toby Heytens • Michael Nachmanoff • Sarala Nagala • Beth Robinson • Omar A. Williams • Myrna Pérez • Jia Cobb • Tana Lin • Lauren King • Lucy H. Koh • Jennifer Sung • Samantha Elliott • Katherine Menendez • Mary Dimke • Linda Lopez • Shalina Kumar • Jane Beckering • Jinsook Ohta • Jennifer L. Thurston • Stephen Locher • Charlotte Sweeney • Nina Nin-Yuen Wang • Arianna Freeman • Jerry Blackwell Retrieved from "https://ballotpedia.org/wiki/index.php?title=Natasha_Merle&oldid=10255927" Categories: Pages using DynamicPageList3 parser functionPages using DynamicPageList3 dplreplace parser functionAppointed by Joe BidenConfirmed 2023Federal Article III judgesFederal judge, United States District Court for the Eastern District of New YorkFederal judiciary nominee, January 2022New YorkFederal judge, Eastern District of New YorkReturned nominee 2023 From Ballotpedia Jump to: navigation, search Natasha Merle Nonpartisan United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York Tenure 2023 - Present Years in position 2 Education Bachelor's University of Texas at Austin, 2005 Law New York University Law School, 2008 Personal Birthplace Brunswick, Maine Contact Personal LinkedIn Natasha Merle is a judge on the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York. She was nominated to the court by President Joe Biden (D) on January 19, 2022, and confirmed by the United States Senate on June 21, 2023, by a vote of 50-49.[1][2][3][4][5][6] Merle was one of 235 Article III judges nominated by President Joe Biden (D) and confirmed by the U.S. Senate.To see a full list of judges appointed by Joe Biden, click here. The United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York is one of 94 U.S. District Courts. They are the general trial courts of the United States federal courts. To learn more about the court, click here. Merle's career experience includes working as the deputy director of litigation at the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, Inc.[2] Contents 1 Judicial nominations and appointments 1.1 United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York (2023-present) 1.1.1 Confirmation vote 1.1.2 Senate Judiciary Committee hearing 1.1.3 Nomination 2 Biography 2.1 Early life and education 2.2 Professional career 3 Associations 4 About the court 4.1 Jurisdiction 4.2 The federal nomination process 5 See also 6 External links 7 Footnotes Judicial nominations and appointments United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York (2023-present) See also: Federal judges nominated by Joe Biden On January 19, 2022, President Joe Biden (D) initially nominated Merle to the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York.[2][3] She was confirmed by a 50-49 vote of the U.S. Senate on June 21, 2023. Merle received commission on August 11, 2023.[1] To read more about the federal nominations process, click here. Nomination Tracker Nominee Information Name: Natasha Merle Court: United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York Progress Confirmed 518 days after nomination. ANominated: January 19, 2022 AABA Rating: Majority well qualified/Minority qualified Questionnaire: Questionnaire AHearing: April 27, 2022 QFRs: QFRs (Hover over QFRs to read more) AReported: May 26, 2022 (initial nomination)[7]/ February 9, 2023 (second nomination) AConfirmed: June 21, 2023 AVote: 50-49 Confirmation vote The U.S. Senate confirmed Merle by a vote of 50-49 vote on June 21, 2023.[1] To see a full breakdown of the vote on the official U.S. Senate website, click here. Natasha Merle confirmation vote (June 21, 2023) Party Yea Nay No vote Democratic 47 1 0 Republican 0 48 1 Independent 3 0 0 Total 50 49 1 Senate Judiciary Committee hearing The Senate Judiciary Committee held hearings on Merle's nomination on April 27, 2022. The committee voted to advance Merle's nomination to the full Senate on May 26, 2022.[3] In a committee hearing on February 2, 2023, the committee cast a tie vote to report Merle to the full United States Senate for a confirmation vote. As a result, she was not reported favorably to the full Senate.[6] In a committee hearing on February 9, 2023, Merle was reported to the full Senate, after a 11-10 committee vote.[5] Nomination On January 19, 2022, President Joe Biden (D) announced his intent to nominate Merle to the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York.[2] He officially nominated her on the same day.[3] Merle was nominated to fill an additional position created on the court in accordance with 28 U.S.C. 133(b)(1).[3] The American Bar Association rated Merle well qualified by a majority and qualified by a minority.[8] To read more about ABA ratings, click here. Merle's nomination was returned to the president at the sine die adjournment of the U.S. Senate on January 3, 2023.[9] The president renominated Merle on the same day.[1] Biography Early life and education Merle was born in Brunswick, Maine, in 1983. She earned a B.A., with honors, in political science and government from the University of Texas, Austin, in 2005 and a J.D., cum laude, from the New York University School of Law in 2008.[10][11] Professional career 2023-present: Judge, United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York 2016-2023: NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, Inc. 2021-2023: Deputy director of litigation 2018-2021: Senior counsel 2018: Assistant counsel 2016-2018: Fried Rank Fellow 2013-2015: Associate, Fried Frank 2012-2013: Law clerk to Judge John Gleeson, U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York 2011-2012: Assistant federal public defender, District of Arizona 2009-2011: Staff attorney, Gulf Region Advocacy Center 2008-2009: Law clerk to Judge Robert Carter, U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York[11] Associations American Bar Association Metropolitan Black Bar Association New York City Bar Association[10] About the court Eastern District of New York Second Circuit Judgeships Posts: 16 Judges: 16 Vacancies: 0 Judges Chief: Margo Brodie Active judges: Margo Brodie, Gary R. Brown, Sanket Bulsara, Pamela Ki Mai Chen, Nusrat Choudhury, LaShann Moutique DeArcy Hall, Ann M. Donnelly, Hector Gonzalez, Diane Gujarati, Eric Komitee, Rachel Kovner, Roslynn Mauskopf, Orelia Merchant, Natasha Merle, Nina Morrison, Ramon Reyes Jr. Senior judges: Carol Amon, Joan Azrack, Frederic Block, Brian Cogan, Raymond Dearie, Nicholas Garaufis, Nina Gershon, Leo Glasser, Denis Hurley, Dora Irizarry, Edward Korman, William Kuntz, Kiyo Matsumoto, Allyne Ross, Joanna Seybert, Eric Vitaliano The United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York is one of 94 United States district courts. The courthouses are located in Brooklyn and Central Islip. When decisions of the court are appealed, they are appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit based in Lower Manhattan at the Daniel Patrick Moynihan Federal Courthouse. Jurisdiction The Eastern District of New York has original jurisdiction over cases filed within its jurisdiction. These cases can include civil and criminal matters that fall under federal law. The geographic jurisdiction of the Eastern District of New York consists of all the following counties in the eastern part of the state of New York. Kings County Queens County Richmond County Nassau County Suffolk County The federal nomination process Federal judges are nominated by the president of the United States and confirmed by the Senate. There are multiple steps to the process: The president nominates an individual for a judicial seat. The nominee fills out a questionnaire and is reviewed by the Senate Judiciary Committee. The Senate Judiciary Committee holds a hearing with the nominee, questioning them about things like their judicial philosophy, past rulings or opinions, etc. As part of this process, the committee sends a blue slip to senators from the home state in which the judicial nomination was received, allowing them to express their approval or disapproval of the nominee. After the hearing, the Senate Judiciary Committee will vote to approve or return the nominee. If approved, the nominee is voted on by the full Senate. If the Committee votes to return the nominee to the president, the president has the opportunity to re-nominate the individual. The Senate holds a vote on the candidate. If the Senate confirms the nomination, the nominee receives a commission to serve a lifelong position as a federal judge. If the Senate does not confirm the nomination, that nominee does not become a judge. See also United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York United States Court of Appeals for the 2nd Circuit External links Suggest a link Search Google News for this topic United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York United States Court of Appeals for the 2nd Circuit Biography from the Federal Judicial Center Footnotes ↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 Congress.gov, "PN82 — Natasha C. Merle — The Judiciary," accessed January 4, 2023 ↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 The White House, "President Biden Names Thirteenth Round of Judicial Nominees," January 19, 2022 ↑ 3.0 3.1 3.2 3.3 3.4 Congress.gov, "PN1686 — Natasha C. Merle — The Judiciary," accessed January 20, 2022 ↑ The White House, "Nominations Sent to the Senate," January 19, 2022 ↑ 5.0 5.1 Committee on the Judiciary, "Results of Executive Business Meeting – February 9, 2023," accessed February 9, 2023 ↑ 6.0 6.1 Committee on the Judiciary, "Results of Executive Business Meeting – February 2, 2023," accessed February 3, 2023 ↑ In a second committee hearing, Merle received a 10-10 tie committee vote and was not reported favorably to the full Senate. Click here for more details. ↑ American Bar Association, "Ratings of Article III and Article IV judicial nominees," accessed April 27, 2022 ↑ Under Senate Rule XXXI, paragraph 6 of the Standing Rules of the Senate, pending nominations are returned to the president if the Senate adjourns sine die or recesses for more than 30 days. ↑ 10.0 10.1 Senate Judiciary Committee, "Questionnaire for judicial nominees," accessed May 19, 2022 ↑ 11.0 11.1 LinkedIn, "Natasha Merle," accessed April 27, 2022 Political offices Preceded by - United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York 2023-Present Succeeded by - New York courts Federal courts: Second Circuit Court of Appeals • U.S. District Court: Eastern District of New York, Western District of New York, Northern District of New York, Southern District of New York • U.S. Bankruptcy Court: Eastern District of New York, Western District of New York, Northern District of New York, Southern District of New York State courts: New York Court of Appeals • New York Supreme Court, Appellate Division • New York Supreme Court • New York County Courts • New York City Courts • New York Town and Village Courts • New York Family Courts • New York Surrogates' Courts • New York City Civil Court • New York City Criminal Courts • New York Court of Claims • New York Problem Solving Courts State resources: Courts in New York • New York judicial elections • Judicial selection in New York v • eFederal judges who have served the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York Active judges Chief Judge: Margo Brodie • Roslynn Mauskopf • Ramon Reyes, Jr. • Ann M. Donnelly • Pamela Ki Mai Chen • Gary R. Brown (Federal judge) • LaShann Moutique DeArcy Hall • Diane Gujarati • Eric Komitee • Rachel Kovner • Sanket Bulsara • Hector Gonzalez (New York) • Nina Morrison • Nusrat Choudhury • Natasha Merle • Orelia Merchant Senior judges Raymond Dearie • Leo Glasser • Denis Hurley • Edward Korman • Carol Amon • Brian Cogan • Nicholas Garaufis • Nina Gershon • Dora Irizarry • Kiyo Matsumoto • Allyne Ross • Joanna Seybert • Eric Vitaliano • Joan Azrack • Frederic Block • William Kuntz • Magistrate judges Arlene Lindsay • Roanne Mann • Cheryl Pollak • Ramon Reyes, Jr. • Vera Scanlon • Steven Locke • Peggy Kuo • Steven Tiscione • Anne Shields • James Wicks • James R. Cho • Taryn A. Merkl • Marcia Henry • Former Article III judges Sterling Johnson • Thomas Platt • Charles Sifton • Arthur Spatt • David Trager • Jack Weinstein • Leonard Wexler • Joseph Bianco • Sandra Feuerstein • John Gleeson • Sandra Townes • Frank Altimari • Charles Linnaeus Benedict • Joseph McLaughlin (Second Circuit) • Reena Raggi • George Pratt • Asa Wentworth Tenney • Edward Beers Thomas • Thomas Chatfield • Van Vechten Veeder • Edwin Louis Garvin • Marcus Beach Campbell • Robert Alexander Inch • Grover Moscowitz • Mortimer Byers • Clarence Galston • Matthew Abruzzo • John Bartels • Frederic Block • Henry Bramwell • Walter Bruchhausen • Mark Costantino • John Dooling • Orrin Judd • Jacob Mishler • Edward Neaher • Eugene Nickerson • Leo Rayfiel • George Rosling • Anthony Travia • Joseph Zavatt • Harold Kennedy (New York) • Former Chief judges Raymond Dearie • Edward Korman • Thomas Platt • Charles Sifton • Jack Weinstein • Carol Amon • Dora Irizarry • Roslynn Mauskopf • Robert Alexander Inch • Walter Bruchhausen • Jacob Mishler • Joseph Zavatt • v • eFederal judges nominated to Article III courts by Joe Biden Commissioned in 2025 Keli Neary Commissioned in 2024 John Kazen • John Russell • Margaret Garnett • Cristal Brisco • Jacquelyn Austin • Gretchen Hess Lund • Micah Smith • Joshua Kolar • Karoline Mehalchick • Kirk Sherriff • Lisa Wang • David Leibowitz • Jacqueline Becerra • Julie Sneed • Melissa Damian • Kelly H. Rankin • Nicole Berner • Sunil Harjani • Leon Schydlower • Ernesto Gonzalez • Susan Bazis • Robert White • Ann Marie McIff Allen • Eumi Lee • Krissa Lanham • Eric Schulte • Camela Theeler • Angela Martinez • Jasmine Yoon • Nancy Maldonado • Meredith Vacca • Georgia Alexakis • Joseph Saporito • Amy Baggio • Stacey Neumann • Mary Kay Lanthier • Adam Abelson • Laura Provinzino • Mary Kay Costello • Dena Coggins • Kevin Ritz • Shanlyn A. S. Park • Byron Conway • Jeannette Vargas • Michelle Williams Court • Jonathan E. Hawley • April Perry • Mustafa Kasubhai • Sarah Russell • Amir Ali • Rebecca Pennell • Anthony Brindisi • Elizabeth Coombe • Cynthia Valenzuela • Anne Hwang • Brian Murphy • Noël Wise • Sanket Bulsara • Tiffany Johnson • Sparkle Sooknanan • Gail Weilheimer • Embry Kidd • Melissa DuBose • Sharad Desai • Serena R. Murillo • Benjamin Cheeks • Sarah Davenport Commissioned in 2023 Kai Scott • Tamika Montgomery-Reeves • Margaret R. Guzman • Daniel Calabretta • Matthew Garcia • DeAndrea G. Benjamin • Cindy Chung • Adrienne Nelson • Lindsay Jenkins • Gina Méndez-Miró • Araceli Martínez-Olguín • Jamar Walker • Ana Reyes • Jamal Whitehead • Gordon Gallagher • Matthew Brookman• Maria Araujo Kahn• James Simmons • Robert Ballou• Andrew Schopler • Jonathan Grey• Colleen Lawless • Arun Subramanian • Jessica Clarke • Robert Kirsch • Michael Farbiarz • Anthony Johnstone • Orelia Merchant • Wesley Hsu • Bradley Garcia • LaShonda A. Hunt • Nancy Gbana Abudu • Amanda Brailsford • Darrel Papillion • Jeremy Daniel • Hernan D. Vera • Julie Rikelman • Nusrat Choudhury • P. Casey Pitts • Myong Joun • Kymberly Evanson • Tiffany Cartwright • Rachel Bloomekatz • Natasha Merle • Dale Ho • Philip Hadji • Rita Lin • Brendan Hurson • Vernon D. Oliver • Matthew Maddox • Julia Munley • Brandy McMillion • Susan DeClercq • Julia Kobick • Ramon Reyes, Jr. • Ana de Alba • Kenly Kiya Kato • Mónica Ramírez Almadani • Jeffrey M. Bryan • Jamel Semper • Irma Ramirez • Richard Federico • Loren AliKhan • Brandon Long • Jerry Edwards Jr.• Sara Hill • Joseph LaroskiCommissioned in 2022 David Herrera Urias • Gabriel Sanchez • Holly Thomas • Maame Ewusi-Mensah Frimpong • David Ruiz • Charles Fleming • Bridget Brennan • Leonard Stark • Alison J. Nathan • John Chun • Julie Rubin • Jacqueline Scott Corley • Ruth Bermudez Montenegro • Victoria Calvert • Georgette Castner • Anne Traum • Cristina Silva • Ketanji Brown Jackson (Supreme Court) • Sarah Geraghty • Hector Gonzalez • Fred Slaughter • Jennifer Rochon • Robert Huie • Sunshine S. Sykes • Stephanie Dawkins Davis • Evelyn Padin • Sherilyn P. Garnett • Ana de Alba • J. Michelle Childs • Trina Thompson • Elizabeth Hanes • Nancy Maldonado • Nina Morrison • Gregory Williams • John Z. Lee • Sal Mendoza, Jr. • Lara Montecalvo • Florence Pan • Andre Mathis • Sarah A.L. Merriam • Jennifer Rearden • Roopali Desai • María Antongiorgi-Jordán • Camille Vélez-Rivé • Doris Pryor • Frances Kay Behm • Dana Douglas • Mia Roberts Perez • Anne Nardacci • Jeffery P. Hopkins Commissioned in 2021 Ketanji Brown Jackson • Zahid Quraishi • Julien Xavier Neals • Deborah Boardman • Regina Rodriguez • Candace Jackson-Akiwumi • Lydia Kay Griggsby • Tiffany Cunningham • Eunice Lee • Angel Kelley • Florence Pan • Veronica Rossman • David G. Estudillo • Sarah A.L. Merriam • Gustavo Gelpí • Christine O'Hearn • Margaret Strickland • Karen McGlashan Williams • Patricia Tolliver Giles • Toby Heytens • Michael Nachmanoff • Sarala Nagala • Beth Robinson • Omar A. Williams • Myrna Pérez • Jia Cobb • Tana Lin • Lauren King • Lucy H. Koh • Jennifer Sung • Samantha Elliott • Katherine Menendez • Mary Dimke • Linda Lopez • Shalina Kumar • Jane Beckering • Jinsook Ohta • Jennifer L. Thurston • Stephen Locher • Charlotte Sweeney • Nina Nin-Yuen Wang • Arianna Freeman • Jerry Blackwell Natasha Merle Nonpartisan United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York Tenure 2023 - Present Years in position 2 Education Bachelor's University of Texas at Austin, 2005 Law New York University Law School, 2008 Personal Birthplace Brunswick, Maine Contact Personal LinkedIn Natasha Merle is a judge on the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York. She was nominated to the court by President Joe Biden (D) on January 19, 2022, and confirmed by the United States Senate on June 21, 2023, by a vote of 50-49.[1][2][3][4][5][6] Merle was one of 235 Article III judges nominated by President Joe Biden (D) and confirmed by the U.S. Senate.To see a full list of judges appointed by Joe Biden, click here. The United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York is one of 94 U.S. District Courts. They are the general trial courts of the United States federal courts. To learn more about the court, click here. Merle's career experience includes working as the deputy director of litigation at the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, Inc.[2] Contents 1 Judicial nominations and appointments 1.1 United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York (2023-present) 1.1.1 Confirmation vote 1.1.2 Senate Judiciary Committee hearing 1.1.3 Nomination 2 Biography 2.1 Early life and education 2.2 Professional career 3 Associations 4 About the court 4.1 Jurisdiction 4.2 The federal nomination process 5 See also 6 External links 7 Footnotes Judicial nominations and appointments United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York (2023-present) See also: Federal judges nominated by Joe Biden On January 19, 2022, President Joe Biden (D) initially nominated Merle to the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York.[2][3] She was confirmed by a 50-49 vote of the U.S. Senate on June 21, 2023. Merle received commission on August 11, 2023.[1] To read more about the federal nominations process, click here. Nomination Tracker Nominee Information Name: Natasha Merle Court: United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York Progress Confirmed 518 days after nomination. ANominated: January 19, 2022 AABA Rating: Majority well qualified/Minority qualified Questionnaire: Questionnaire AHearing: April 27, 2022 QFRs: QFRs (Hover over QFRs to read more) AReported: May 26, 2022 (initial nomination)[7]/ February 9, 2023 (second nomination) AConfirmed: June 21, 2023 AVote: 50-49 Confirmation vote The U.S. Senate confirmed Merle by a vote of 50-49 vote on June 21, 2023.[1] To see a full breakdown of the vote on the official U.S. Senate website, click here. Natasha Merle confirmation vote (June 21, 2023) Party Yea Nay No vote Democratic 47 1 0 Republican 0 48 1 Independent 3 0 0 Total 50 49 1 Senate Judiciary Committee hearing The Senate Judiciary Committee held hearings on Merle's nomination on April 27, 2022. The committee voted to advance Merle's nomination to the full Senate on May 26, 2022.[3] In a committee hearing on February 2, 2023, the committee cast a tie vote to report Merle to the full United States Senate for a confirmation vote. As a result, she was not reported favorably to the full Senate.[6] In a committee hearing on February 9, 2023, Merle was reported to the full Senate, after a 11-10 committee vote.[5] Nomination On January 19, 2022, President Joe Biden (D) announced his intent to nominate Merle to the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York.[2] He officially nominated her on the same day.[3] Merle was nominated to fill an additional position created on the court in accordance with 28 U.S.C. 133(b)(1).[3] The American Bar Association rated Merle well qualified by a majority and qualified by a minority.[8] To read more about ABA ratings, click here. Merle's nomination was returned to the president at the sine die adjournment of the U.S. Senate on January 3, 2023.[9] The president renominated Merle on the same day.[1] Biography Early life and education Merle was born in Brunswick, Maine, in 1983. She earned a B.A., with honors, in political science and government from the University of Texas, Austin, in 2005 and a J.D., cum laude, from the New York University School of Law in 2008.[10][11] Professional career 2023-present: Judge, United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York 2016-2023: NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, Inc. 2021-2023: Deputy director of litigation 2018-2021: Senior counsel 2018: Assistant counsel 2016-2018: Fried Rank Fellow 2013-2015: Associate, Fried Frank 2012-2013: Law clerk to Judge John Gleeson, U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York 2011-2012: Assistant federal public defender, District of Arizona 2009-2011: Staff attorney, Gulf Region Advocacy Center 2008-2009: Law clerk to Judge Robert Carter, U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York[11] Associations American Bar Association Metropolitan Black Bar Association New York City Bar Association[10] About the court Eastern District of New York Second Circuit Judgeships Posts: 16 Judges: 16 Vacancies: 0 Judges Chief: Margo Brodie Active judges: Margo Brodie, Gary R. Brown, Sanket Bulsara, Pamela Ki Mai Chen, Nusrat Choudhury, LaShann Moutique DeArcy Hall, Ann M. Donnelly, Hector Gonzalez, Diane Gujarati, Eric Komitee, Rachel Kovner, Roslynn Mauskopf, Orelia Merchant, Natasha Merle, Nina Morrison, Ramon Reyes Jr. Senior judges: Carol Amon, Joan Azrack, Frederic Block, Brian Cogan, Raymond Dearie, Nicholas Garaufis, Nina Gershon, Leo Glasser, Denis Hurley, Dora Irizarry, Edward Korman, William Kuntz, Kiyo Matsumoto, Allyne Ross, Joanna Seybert, Eric Vitaliano The United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York is one of 94 United States district courts. The courthouses are located in Brooklyn and Central Islip. When decisions of the court are appealed, they are appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit based in Lower Manhattan at the Daniel Patrick Moynihan Federal Courthouse. Jurisdiction The Eastern District of New York has original jurisdiction over cases filed within its jurisdiction. These cases can include civil and criminal matters that fall under federal law. The geographic jurisdiction of the Eastern District of New York consists of all the following counties in the eastern part of the state of New York. Kings County Queens County Richmond County Nassau County Suffolk County The federal nomination process Federal judges are nominated by the president of the United States and confirmed by the Senate. There are multiple steps to the process: The president nominates an individual for a judicial seat. The nominee fills out a questionnaire and is reviewed by the Senate Judiciary Committee. The Senate Judiciary Committee holds a hearing with the nominee, questioning them about things like their judicial philosophy, past rulings or opinions, etc. As part of this process, the committee sends a blue slip to senators from the home state in which the judicial nomination was received, allowing them to express their approval or disapproval of the nominee. After the hearing, the Senate Judiciary Committee will vote to approve or return the nominee. If approved, the nominee is voted on by the full Senate. If the Committee votes to return the nominee to the president, the president has the opportunity to re-nominate the individual. The Senate holds a vote on the candidate. If the Senate confirms the nomination, the nominee receives a commission to serve a lifelong position as a federal judge. If the Senate does not confirm the nomination, that nominee does not become a judge. See also United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York United States Court of Appeals for the 2nd Circuit External links Suggest a link Search Google News for this topic United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York United States Court of Appeals for the 2nd Circuit Biography from the Federal Judicial Center Footnotes ↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 Congress.gov, "PN82 — Natasha C. Merle — The Judiciary," accessed January 4, 2023 ↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 The White House, "President Biden Names Thirteenth Round of Judicial Nominees," January 19, 2022 ↑ 3.0 3.1 3.2 3.3 3.4 Congress.gov, "PN1686 — Natasha C. Merle — The Judiciary," accessed January 20, 2022 ↑ The White House, "Nominations Sent to the Senate," January 19, 2022 ↑ 5.0 5.1 Committee on the Judiciary, "Results of Executive Business Meeting – February 9, 2023," accessed February 9, 2023 ↑ 6.0 6.1 Committee on the Judiciary, "Results of Executive Business Meeting – February 2, 2023," accessed February 3, 2023 ↑ In a second committee hearing, Merle received a 10-10 tie committee vote and was not reported favorably to the full Senate. Click here for more details. ↑ American Bar Association, "Ratings of Article III and Article IV judicial nominees," accessed April 27, 2022 ↑ Under Senate Rule XXXI, paragraph 6 of the Standing Rules of the Senate, pending nominations are returned to the president if the Senate adjourns sine die or recesses for more than 30 days. ↑ 10.0 10.1 Senate Judiciary Committee, "Questionnaire for judicial nominees," accessed May 19, 2022 ↑ 11.0 11.1 LinkedIn, "Natasha Merle," accessed April 27, 2022 Political offices Preceded by - United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York 2023-Present Succeeded by - New York courts Federal courts: Second Circuit Court of Appeals • U.S. District Court: Eastern District of New York, Western District of New York, Northern District of New York, Southern District of New York • U.S. Bankruptcy Court: Eastern District of New York, Western District of New York, Northern District of New York, Southern District of New York State courts: New York Court of Appeals • New York Supreme Court, Appellate Division • New York Supreme Court • New York County Courts • New York City Courts • New York Town and Village Courts • New York Family Courts • New York Surrogates' Courts • New York City Civil Court • New York City Criminal Courts • New York Court of Claims • New York Problem Solving Courts State resources: Courts in New York • New York judicial elections • Judicial selection in New York v • eFederal judges who have served the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York Active judges Chief Judge: Margo Brodie • Roslynn Mauskopf • Ramon Reyes, Jr. • Ann M. Donnelly • Pamela Ki Mai Chen • Gary R. Brown (Federal judge) • LaShann Moutique DeArcy Hall • Diane Gujarati • Eric Komitee • Rachel Kovner • Sanket Bulsara • Hector Gonzalez (New York) • Nina Morrison • Nusrat Choudhury • Natasha Merle • Orelia Merchant Senior judges Raymond Dearie • Leo Glasser • Denis Hurley • Edward Korman • Carol Amon • Brian Cogan • Nicholas Garaufis • Nina Gershon • Dora Irizarry • Kiyo Matsumoto • Allyne Ross • Joanna Seybert • Eric Vitaliano • Joan Azrack • Frederic Block • William Kuntz • Magistrate judges Arlene Lindsay • Roanne Mann • Cheryl Pollak • Ramon Reyes, Jr. • Vera Scanlon • Steven Locke • Peggy Kuo • Steven Tiscione • Anne Shields • James Wicks • James R. Cho • Taryn A. Merkl • Marcia Henry • Former Article III judges Sterling Johnson • Thomas Platt • Charles Sifton • Arthur Spatt • David Trager • Jack Weinstein • Leonard Wexler • Joseph Bianco • Sandra Feuerstein • John Gleeson • Sandra Townes • Frank Altimari • Charles Linnaeus Benedict • Joseph McLaughlin (Second Circuit) • Reena Raggi • George Pratt • Asa Wentworth Tenney • Edward Beers Thomas • Thomas Chatfield • Van Vechten Veeder • Edwin Louis Garvin • Marcus Beach Campbell • Robert Alexander Inch • Grover Moscowitz • Mortimer Byers • Clarence Galston • Matthew Abruzzo • John Bartels • Frederic Block • Henry Bramwell • Walter Bruchhausen • Mark Costantino • John Dooling • Orrin Judd • Jacob Mishler • Edward Neaher • Eugene Nickerson • Leo Rayfiel • George Rosling • Anthony Travia • Joseph Zavatt • Harold Kennedy (New York) • Former Chief judges Raymond Dearie • Edward Korman • Thomas Platt • Charles Sifton • Jack Weinstein • Carol Amon • Dora Irizarry • Roslynn Mauskopf • Robert Alexander Inch • Walter Bruchhausen • Jacob Mishler • Joseph Zavatt • v • eFederal judges nominated to Article III courts by Joe Biden Commissioned in 2025 Keli Neary Commissioned in 2024 John Kazen • John Russell • Margaret Garnett • Cristal Brisco • Jacquelyn Austin • Gretchen Hess Lund • Micah Smith • Joshua Kolar • Karoline Mehalchick • Kirk Sherriff • Lisa Wang • David Leibowitz • Jacqueline Becerra • Julie Sneed • Melissa Damian • Kelly H. Rankin • Nicole Berner • Sunil Harjani • Leon Schydlower • Ernesto Gonzalez • Susan Bazis • Robert White • Ann Marie McIff Allen • Eumi Lee • Krissa Lanham • Eric Schulte • Camela Theeler • Angela Martinez • Jasmine Yoon • Nancy Maldonado • Meredith Vacca • Georgia Alexakis • Joseph Saporito • Amy Baggio • Stacey Neumann • Mary Kay Lanthier • Adam Abelson • Laura Provinzino • Mary Kay Costello • Dena Coggins • Kevin Ritz • Shanlyn A. S. Park • Byron Conway • Jeannette Vargas • Michelle Williams Court • Jonathan E. Hawley • April Perry • Mustafa Kasubhai • Sarah Russell • Amir Ali • Rebecca Pennell • Anthony Brindisi • Elizabeth Coombe • Cynthia Valenzuela • Anne Hwang • Brian Murphy • Noël Wise • Sanket Bulsara • Tiffany Johnson • Sparkle Sooknanan • Gail Weilheimer • Embry Kidd • Melissa DuBose • Sharad Desai • Serena R. Murillo • Benjamin Cheeks • Sarah Davenport Commissioned in 2023 Kai Scott • Tamika Montgomery-Reeves • Margaret R. Guzman • Daniel Calabretta • Matthew Garcia • DeAndrea G. Benjamin • Cindy Chung • Adrienne Nelson • Lindsay Jenkins • Gina Méndez-Miró • Araceli Martínez-Olguín • Jamar Walker • Ana Reyes • Jamal Whitehead • Gordon Gallagher • Matthew Brookman• Maria Araujo Kahn• James Simmons • Robert Ballou• Andrew Schopler • Jonathan Grey• Colleen Lawless • Arun Subramanian • Jessica Clarke • Robert Kirsch • Michael Farbiarz • Anthony Johnstone • Orelia Merchant • Wesley Hsu • Bradley Garcia • LaShonda A. Hunt • Nancy Gbana Abudu • Amanda Brailsford • Darrel Papillion • Jeremy Daniel • Hernan D. Vera • Julie Rikelman • Nusrat Choudhury • P. Casey Pitts • Myong Joun • Kymberly Evanson • Tiffany Cartwright • Rachel Bloomekatz • Natasha Merle • Dale Ho • Philip Hadji • Rita Lin • Brendan Hurson • Vernon D. Oliver • Matthew Maddox • Julia Munley • Brandy McMillion • Susan DeClercq • Julia Kobick • Ramon Reyes, Jr. • Ana de Alba • Kenly Kiya Kato • Mónica Ramírez Almadani • Jeffrey M. Bryan • Jamel Semper • Irma Ramirez • Richard Federico • Loren AliKhan • Brandon Long • Jerry Edwards Jr.• Sara Hill • Joseph LaroskiCommissioned in 2022 David Herrera Urias • Gabriel Sanchez • Holly Thomas • Maame Ewusi-Mensah Frimpong • David Ruiz • Charles Fleming • Bridget Brennan • Leonard Stark • Alison J. Nathan • John Chun • Julie Rubin • Jacqueline Scott Corley • Ruth Bermudez Montenegro • Victoria Calvert • Georgette Castner • Anne Traum • Cristina Silva • Ketanji Brown Jackson (Supreme Court) • Sarah Geraghty • Hector Gonzalez • Fred Slaughter • Jennifer Rochon • Robert Huie • Sunshine S. Sykes • Stephanie Dawkins Davis • Evelyn Padin • Sherilyn P. Garnett • Ana de Alba • J. Michelle Childs • Trina Thompson • Elizabeth Hanes • Nancy Maldonado • Nina Morrison • Gregory Williams • John Z. Lee • Sal Mendoza, Jr. • Lara Montecalvo • Florence Pan • Andre Mathis • Sarah A.L. Merriam • Jennifer Rearden • Roopali Desai • María Antongiorgi-Jordán • Camille Vélez-Rivé • Doris Pryor • Frances Kay Behm • Dana Douglas • Mia Roberts Perez • Anne Nardacci • Jeffery P. Hopkins Commissioned in 2021 Ketanji Brown Jackson • Zahid Quraishi • Julien Xavier Neals • Deborah Boardman • Regina Rodriguez • Candace Jackson-Akiwumi • Lydia Kay Griggsby • Tiffany Cunningham • Eunice Lee • Angel Kelley • Florence Pan • Veronica Rossman • David G. Estudillo • Sarah A.L. Merriam • Gustavo Gelpí • Christine O'Hearn • Margaret Strickland • Karen McGlashan Williams • Patricia Tolliver Giles • Toby Heytens • Michael Nachmanoff • Sarala Nagala • Beth Robinson • Omar A. Williams • Myrna Pérez • Jia Cobb • Tana Lin • Lauren King • Lucy H. Koh • Jennifer Sung • Samantha Elliott • Katherine Menendez • Mary Dimke • Linda Lopez • Shalina Kumar • Jane Beckering • Jinsook Ohta • Jennifer L. Thurston • Stephen Locher • Charlotte Sweeney • Nina Nin-Yuen Wang • Arianna Freeman • Jerry Blackwell Natasha Merle Nonpartisan United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York Tenure 2023 - Present Years in position 2 Education Bachelor's University of Texas at Austin, 2005 Law New York University Law School, 2008 Personal Birthplace Brunswick, Maine Contact Personal LinkedIn Natasha Merle Nonpartisan Nonpartisan United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York 2023 - Present 2023 - Present Years in position Bachelor's University of Texas at Austin, 2005 University of Texas at Austin, 2005 University of Texas at Austin, 2005 Law New York University Law School, 2008 New York University Law School, 2008 New York University Law School, 2008 Birthplace Brunswick, Maine Brunswick, Maine Personal LinkedIn Personal LinkedIn Natasha Merle is a judge on the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York. She was nominated to the court by President Joe Biden (D) on January 19, 2022, and confirmed by the United States Senate on June 21, 2023, by a vote of 50-49.[1][2][3][4][5][6] Merle was one of 235 Article III judges nominated by President Joe Biden (D) and confirmed by the U.S. Senate.To see a full list of judges appointed by Joe Biden, click here. The United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York is one of 94 U.S. District Courts. They are the general trial courts of the United States federal courts. To learn more about the court, click here. Merle's career experience includes working as the deputy director of litigation at the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, Inc.[2] Contents 1 Judicial nominations and appointments 1.1 United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York (2023-present) 1.1.1 Confirmation vote 1.1.2 Senate Judiciary Committee hearing 1.1.3 Nomination 2 Biography 2.1 Early life and education 2.2 Professional career 3 Associations 4 About the court 4.1 Jurisdiction 4.2 The federal nomination process 5 See also 6 External links 7 Footnotes 1 Judicial nominations and appointments 1.1 United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York (2023-present) 1.1.1 Confirmation vote 1.1.2 Senate Judiciary Committee hearing 1.1.3 Nomination 1.1 United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York (2023-present) 1.1.1 Confirmation vote 1.1.2 Senate Judiciary Committee hearing 1.1.3 Nomination 1.1.1 Confirmation vote 1.1.2 Senate Judiciary Committee hearing 1.1.3 Nomination 2 Biography 2.1 Early life and education 2.2 Professional career 2.1 Early life and education 2.2 Professional career 3 Associations 4 About the court 4.1 Jurisdiction 4.2 The federal nomination process 4.1 Jurisdiction 4.2 The federal nomination process 6 External links 7 Footnotes Judicial nominations and appointments United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York (2023-present) On January 19, 2022, President Joe Biden (D) initially nominated Merle to the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York.[2][3] She was confirmed by a 50-49 vote of the U.S. Senate on June 21, 2023. Merle received commission on August 11, 2023.[1] To read more about the federal nominations process, click here. Confirmation vote The U.S. Senate confirmed Merle by a vote of 50-49 vote on June 21, 2023.[1] To see a full breakdown of the vote on the official U.S. Senate website, click here. Senate Judiciary Committee hearing The Senate Judiciary Committee held hearings on Merle's nomination on April 27, 2022. The committee voted to advance Merle's nomination to the full Senate on May 26, 2022.[3] In a committee hearing on February 2, 2023, the committee cast a tie vote to report Merle to the full United States Senate for a confirmation vote. As a result, she was not reported favorably to the full Senate.[6] In a committee hearing on February 9, 2023, Merle was reported to the full Senate, after a 11-10 committee vote.[5] On January 19, 2022, President Joe Biden (D) announced his intent to nominate Merle to the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York.[2] He officially nominated her on the same day.[3] Merle was nominated to fill an additional position created on the court in accordance with 28 U.S.C. 133(b)(1).[3] The American Bar Association rated Merle well qualified by a majority and qualified by a minority.[8] To read more about ABA ratings, click here. Merle's nomination was returned to the president at the sine die adjournment of the U.S. Senate on January 3, 2023.[9] The president renominated Merle on the same day.[1] Early life and education Merle was born in Brunswick, Maine, in 1983. She earned a B.A., with honors, in political science and government from the University of Texas, Austin, in 2005 and a J.D., cum laude, from the New York University School of Law in 2008.[10][11] Professional career 2023-present: Judge, United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York 2016-2023: NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, Inc. 2021-2023: Deputy director of litigation 2018-2021: Senior counsel 2018: Assistant counsel 2016-2018: Fried Rank Fellow 2021-2023: Deputy director of litigation 2018-2021: Senior counsel 2018: Assistant counsel 2016-2018: Fried Rank Fellow 2013-2015: Associate, Fried Frank 2012-2013: Law clerk to Judge John Gleeson, U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York 2011-2012: Assistant federal public defender, District of Arizona 2009-2011: Staff attorney, Gulf Region Advocacy Center 2008-2009: Law clerk to Judge Robert Carter, U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York[11] Associations American Bar Association Metropolitan Black Bar Association New York City Bar Association[10] About the court Senior judges: Carol Amon, Joan Azrack, Frederic Block, Brian Cogan, Raymond Dearie, Nicholas Garaufis, Nina Gershon, Leo Glasser, Denis Hurley, Dora Irizarry, Edward Korman, William Kuntz, Kiyo Matsumoto, Allyne Ross, Joanna Seybert, Eric Vitaliano The United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York is one of 94 United States district courts. The courthouses are located in Brooklyn and Central Islip. When decisions of the court are appealed, they are appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit based in Lower Manhattan at the Daniel Patrick Moynihan Federal Courthouse. Jurisdiction The Eastern District of New York has original jurisdiction over cases filed within its jurisdiction. These cases can include civil and criminal matters that fall under federal law. The geographic jurisdiction of the Eastern District of New York consists of all the following counties in the eastern part of the state of New York. Kings County Queens County Richmond County Nassau County Suffolk County Kings County Queens County Richmond County Nassau County Suffolk County The federal nomination process Federal judges are nominated by the president of the United States and confirmed by the Senate. There are multiple steps to the process: The president nominates an individual for a judicial seat. The nominee fills out a questionnaire and is reviewed by the Senate Judiciary Committee. The Senate Judiciary Committee holds a hearing with the nominee, questioning them about things like their judicial philosophy, past rulings or opinions, etc. As part of this process, the committee sends a blue slip to senators from the home state in which the judicial nomination was received, allowing them to express their approval or disapproval of the nominee. After the hearing, the Senate Judiciary Committee will vote to approve or return the nominee. If approved, the nominee is voted on by the full Senate. If the Committee votes to return the nominee to the president, the president has the opportunity to re-nominate the individual. The Senate holds a vote on the candidate. If the Senate confirms the nomination, the nominee receives a commission to serve a lifelong position as a federal judge. If the Senate does not confirm the nomination, that nominee does not become a judge. United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York United States Court of Appeals for the 2nd Circuit External links Suggest a link Search Google News for this topic United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York United States Court of Appeals for the 2nd Circuit Biography from the Federal Judicial Center ↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 Congress.gov, "PN82 — Natasha C. Merle — The Judiciary," accessed January 4, 2023 ↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 The White House, "President Biden Names Thirteenth Round of Judicial Nominees," January 19, 2022 ↑ 3.0 3.1 3.2 3.3 3.4 Congress.gov, "PN1686 — Natasha C. Merle — The Judiciary," accessed January 20, 2022 ↑ The White House, "Nominations Sent to the Senate," January 19, 2022 ↑ 5.0 5.1 Committee on the Judiciary, "Results of Executive Business Meeting – February 9, 2023," accessed February 9, 2023 ↑ 6.0 6.1 Committee on the Judiciary, "Results of Executive Business Meeting – February 2, 2023," accessed February 3, 2023 ↑ In a second committee hearing, Merle received a 10-10 tie committee vote and was not reported favorably to the full Senate. Click here for more details. ↑ American Bar Association, "Ratings of Article III and Article IV judicial nominees," accessed April 27, 2022 ↑ Under Senate Rule XXXI, paragraph 6 of the Standing Rules of the Senate, pending nominations are returned to the president if the Senate adjourns sine die or recesses for more than 30 days. ↑ 10.0 10.1 Senate Judiciary Committee, "Questionnaire for judicial nominees," accessed May 19, 2022 ↑ 11.0 11.1 LinkedIn, "Natasha Merle," accessed April 27, 2022 ↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 Congress.gov, "PN82 — Natasha C. Merle — The Judiciary," accessed January 4, 2023 ↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 The White House, "President Biden Names Thirteenth Round of Judicial Nominees," January 19, 2022 ↑ 3.0 3.1 3.2 3.3 3.4 Congress.gov, "PN1686 — Natasha C. Merle — The Judiciary," accessed January 20, 2022 ↑ The White House, "Nominations Sent to the Senate," January 19, 2022 ↑ 5.0 5.1 Committee on the Judiciary, "Results of Executive Business Meeting – February 9, 2023," accessed February 9, 2023 ↑ 6.0 6.1 Committee on the Judiciary, "Results of Executive Business Meeting – February 2, 2023," accessed February 3, 2023 ↑ In a second committee hearing, Merle received a 10-10 tie committee vote and was not reported favorably to the full Senate. Click here for more details. ↑ American Bar Association, "Ratings of Article III and Article IV judicial nominees," accessed April 27, 2022 ↑ Under Senate Rule XXXI, paragraph 6 of the Standing Rules of the Senate, pending nominations are returned to the president if the Senate adjourns sine die or recesses for more than 30 days. ↑ 10.0 10.1 Senate Judiciary Committee, "Questionnaire for judicial nominees," accessed May 19, 2022 ↑ 11.0 11.1 LinkedIn, "Natasha Merle," accessed April 27, 2022 ↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 Congress.gov, "PN82 — Natasha C. Merle — The Judiciary," accessed January 4, 2023 ↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 The White House, "President Biden Names Thirteenth Round of Judicial Nominees," January 19, 2022 ↑ 3.0 3.1 3.2 3.3 3.4 Congress.gov, "PN1686 — Natasha C. Merle — The Judiciary," accessed January 20, 2022 ↑ The White House, "Nominations Sent to the Senate," January 19, 2022 ↑ 5.0 5.1 Committee on the Judiciary, "Results of Executive Business Meeting – February 9, 2023," accessed February 9, 2023 ↑ 6.0 6.1 Committee on the Judiciary, "Results of Executive Business Meeting – February 2, 2023," accessed February 3, 2023 ↑ In a second committee hearing, Merle received a 10-10 tie committee vote and was not reported favorably to the full Senate. Click here for more details. ↑ American Bar Association, "Ratings of Article III and Article IV judicial nominees," accessed April 27, 2022 ↑ Under Senate Rule XXXI, paragraph 6 of the Standing Rules of the Senate, pending nominations are returned to the president if the Senate adjourns sine die or recesses for more than 30 days. ↑ 10.0 10.1 Senate Judiciary Committee, "Questionnaire for judicial nominees," accessed May 19, 2022 ↑ 11.0 11.1 LinkedIn, "Natasha Merle," accessed April 27, 2022 ↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 Congress.gov, "PN82 — Natasha C. Merle — The Judiciary," accessed January 4, 2023 ↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 The White House, "President Biden Names Thirteenth Round of Judicial Nominees," January 19, 2022 ↑ 3.0 3.1 3.2 3.3 3.4 Congress.gov, "PN1686 — Natasha C. Merle — The Judiciary," accessed January 20, 2022 ↑ The White House, "Nominations Sent to the Senate," January 19, 2022 ↑ 5.0 5.1 Committee on the Judiciary, "Results of Executive Business Meeting – February 9, 2023," accessed February 9, 2023 ↑ 6.0 6.1 Committee on the Judiciary, "Results of Executive Business Meeting – February 2, 2023," accessed February 3, 2023 ↑ In a second committee hearing, Merle received a 10-10 tie committee vote and was not reported favorably to the full Senate. Click here for more details. ↑ American Bar Association, "Ratings of Article III and Article IV judicial nominees," accessed April 27, 2022 ↑ Under Senate Rule XXXI, paragraph 6 of the Standing Rules of the Senate, pending nominations are returned to the president if the Senate adjourns sine die or recesses for more than 30 days. ↑ 10.0 10.1 Senate Judiciary Committee, "Questionnaire for judicial nominees," accessed May 19, 2022 ↑ 11.0 11.1 LinkedIn, "Natasha Merle," accessed April 27, 2022 Political offices Preceded by - United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York 2023-Present Succeeded by - New York courts Federal courts: Second Circuit Court of Appeals • U.S. District Court: Eastern District of New York, Western District of New York, Northern District of New York, Southern District of New York • U.S. Bankruptcy Court: Eastern District of New York, Western District of New York, Northern District of New York, Southern District of New York State courts: New York Court of Appeals • New York Supreme Court, Appellate Division • New York Supreme Court • New York County Courts • New York City Courts • New York Town and Village Courts • New York Family Courts • New York Surrogates' Courts • New York City Civil Court • New York City Criminal Courts • New York Court of Claims • New York Problem Solving Courts State resources: Courts in New York • New York judicial elections • Judicial selection in New York New York courts Federal courts: Second Circuit Court of Appeals • U.S. District Court: Eastern District of New York, Western District of New York, Northern District of New York, Southern District of New York • U.S. Bankruptcy Court: Eastern District of New York, Western District of New York, Northern District of New York, Southern District of New York State courts: New York Court of Appeals • New York Supreme Court, Appellate Division • New York Supreme Court • New York County Courts • New York City Courts • New York Town and Village Courts • New York Family Courts • New York Surrogates' Courts • New York City Civil Court • New York City Criminal Courts • New York Court of Claims • New York Problem Solving Courts State resources: Courts in New York • New York judicial elections • Judicial selection in New York Chief Judge: Margo Brodie • Roslynn Mauskopf • Ramon Reyes, Jr. • Ann M. Donnelly • Pamela Ki Mai Chen • Gary R. Brown (Federal judge) • LaShann Moutique DeArcy Hall • Diane Gujarati • Eric Komitee • Rachel Kovner • Sanket Bulsara • Hector Gonzalez (New York) • Nina Morrison • Nusrat Choudhury • Natasha Merle • Orelia Merchant Raymond Dearie • Leo Glasser • Denis Hurley • Edward Korman • Carol Amon • Brian Cogan • Nicholas Garaufis • Nina Gershon • Dora Irizarry • Kiyo Matsumoto • Allyne Ross • Joanna Seybert • Eric Vitaliano • Joan Azrack • Frederic Block • William Kuntz • Sterling Johnson • Thomas Platt • Charles Sifton • Arthur Spatt • David Trager • Jack Weinstein • Leonard Wexler • Joseph Bianco • Sandra Feuerstein • John Gleeson • Sandra Townes • Frank Altimari • Charles Linnaeus Benedict • Joseph McLaughlin (Second Circuit) • Reena Raggi • George Pratt • Asa Wentworth Tenney • Edward Beers Thomas • Thomas Chatfield • Van Vechten Veeder • Edwin Louis Garvin • Marcus Beach Campbell • Robert Alexander Inch • Grover Moscowitz • Mortimer Byers • Clarence Galston • Matthew Abruzzo • John Bartels • Frederic Block • Henry Bramwell • Walter Bruchhausen • Mark Costantino • John Dooling • Orrin Judd • Jacob Mishler • Edward Neaher • Eugene Nickerson • Leo Rayfiel • George Rosling • Anthony Travia • Joseph Zavatt • Harold Kennedy (New York) • Raymond Dearie • Edward Korman • Thomas Platt • Charles Sifton • Jack Weinstein • Carol Amon • Dora Irizarry • Roslynn Mauskopf • Robert Alexander Inch • Walter Bruchhausen • Jacob Mishler • Joseph Zavatt • John Kazen • John Russell • Margaret Garnett • Cristal Brisco • Jacquelyn Austin • Gretchen Hess Lund • Micah Smith • Joshua Kolar • Karoline Mehalchick • Kirk Sherriff • Lisa Wang • David Leibowitz • Jacqueline Becerra • Julie Sneed • Melissa Damian • Kelly H. Rankin • Nicole Berner • Sunil Harjani • Leon Schydlower • Ernesto Gonzalez • Susan Bazis • Robert White • Ann Marie McIff Allen • Eumi Lee • Krissa Lanham • Eric Schulte • Camela Theeler • Angela Martinez • Jasmine Yoon • Nancy Maldonado • Meredith Vacca • Georgia Alexakis • Joseph Saporito • Amy Baggio • Stacey Neumann • Mary Kay Lanthier • Adam Abelson • Laura Provinzino • Mary Kay Costello • Dena Coggins • Kevin Ritz • Shanlyn A. S. Park • Byron Conway • Jeannette Vargas • Michelle Williams Court • Jonathan E. Hawley • April Perry • Mustafa Kasubhai • Sarah Russell • Amir Ali • Rebecca Pennell • Anthony Brindisi • Elizabeth Coombe • Cynthia Valenzuela • Anne Hwang • Brian Murphy • Noël Wise • Sanket Bulsara • Tiffany Johnson • Sparkle Sooknanan • Gail Weilheimer • Embry Kidd • Melissa DuBose • Sharad Desai • Serena R. Murillo • Benjamin Cheeks • Sarah Davenport David Herrera Urias • Gabriel Sanchez • Holly Thomas • Maame Ewusi-Mensah Frimpong • David Ruiz • Charles Fleming • Bridget Brennan • Leonard Stark • Alison J. Nathan • John Chun • Julie Rubin • Jacqueline Scott Corley • Ruth Bermudez Montenegro • Victoria Calvert • Georgette Castner • Anne Traum • Cristina Silva • Ketanji Brown Jackson (Supreme Court) • Sarah Geraghty • Hector Gonzalez • Fred Slaughter • Jennifer Rochon • Robert Huie • Sunshine S. Sykes • Stephanie Dawkins Davis • Evelyn Padin • Sherilyn P. Garnett • Ana de Alba • J. Michelle Childs • Trina Thompson • Elizabeth Hanes • Nancy Maldonado • Nina Morrison • Gregory Williams • John Z. Lee • Sal Mendoza, Jr. • Lara Montecalvo • Florence Pan • Andre Mathis • Sarah A.L. Merriam • Jennifer Rearden • Roopali Desai • María Antongiorgi-Jordán • Camille Vélez-Rivé • Doris Pryor • Frances Kay Behm • Dana Douglas • Mia Roberts Perez • Anne Nardacci • Jeffery P. Hopkins Ketanji Brown Jackson • Zahid Quraishi • Julien Xavier Neals • Deborah Boardman • Regina Rodriguez • Candace Jackson-Akiwumi • Lydia Kay Griggsby • Tiffany Cunningham • Eunice Lee • Angel Kelley • Florence Pan • Veronica Rossman • David G. Estudillo • Sarah A.L. Merriam • Gustavo Gelpí • Christine O'Hearn • Margaret Strickland • Karen McGlashan Williams • Patricia Tolliver Giles • Toby Heytens • Michael Nachmanoff • Sarala Nagala • Beth Robinson • Omar A. Williams • Myrna Pérez • Jia Cobb • Tana Lin • Lauren King • Lucy H. Koh • Jennifer Sung • Samantha Elliott • Katherine Menendez • Mary Dimke • Linda Lopez • Shalina Kumar • Jane Beckering • Jinsook Ohta • Jennifer L. Thurston • Stephen Locher • Charlotte Sweeney • Nina Nin-Yuen Wang • Arianna Freeman • Jerry Blackwell Retrieved from "https://ballotpedia.org/wiki/index.php?title=Natasha_Merle&oldid=10255927" Categories: Pages using DynamicPageList3 parser functionPages using DynamicPageList3 dplreplace parser functionAppointed by Joe BidenConfirmed 2023Federal Article III judgesFederal judge, United States District Court for the Eastern District of New YorkFederal judiciary nominee, January 2022New YorkFederal judge, Eastern District of New YorkReturned nominee 2023 Categories: Pages using DynamicPageList3 parser functionPages using DynamicPageList3 dplreplace parser functionAppointed by Joe BidenConfirmed 2023Federal Article III judgesFederal judge, United States District Court for the Eastern District of New YorkFederal judiciary nominee, January 2022New YorkFederal judge, Eastern District of New YorkReturned nominee 2023 Categories: Pages using DynamicPageList3 parser functionPages using DynamicPageList3 dplreplace parser functionAppointed by Joe BidenConfirmed 2023Federal Article III judgesFederal judge, United States District Court for the Eastern District of New YorkFederal judiciary nominee, January 2022New YorkFederal judge, Eastern District of New YorkReturned nominee 2023 Pages using DynamicPageList3 parser function Pages using DynamicPageList3 dplreplace parser function Appointed by Joe Biden Confirmed 2023 Federal Article III judges Federal judge, United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York Federal judiciary nominee, January 2022 Federal judge, Eastern District of New York Returned nominee 2023