Source: https://blog.mygov.in/himachal-becomes-first-smoke-free-state-of-the-country/
Words: 2053

================================================================================

You don't have javascript enabled. Please Enabled javascript for better performance. GOVERNMENT OF INDIA Accessibility Accessibility Tools Color Adjustment High contrast icon High Contrast Dark contrast icon Dark Contrast Text Size Increase Text icon Increase Text Decrease Text icon Decrease Text Reset font size icon Reset Text Navigation Adjustment Screen Reader iconScreen Reader Follow us MyGov Twitter MyGov Facebook MyGov Youtube MyGov Instagram MyGov Linkedin MyGov Whatsapp MyGov Updates E-Books Editorials GOVERNMENT OF INDIA Accessibility Accessibility Tools Color Adjustment High contrast icon High Contrast Dark contrast icon Dark Contrast Text Size Increase Text icon Increase Text Decrease Text icon Decrease Text Reset font size icon Reset Text Navigation Adjustment Screen Reader iconScreen Reader Follow us MyGov Twitter MyGov Facebook MyGov Youtube MyGov Instagram MyGov Linkedin MyGov Whatsapp GOVERNMENT OF INDIA Accessibility Accessibility Tools Color Adjustment High contrast icon High Contrast Dark contrast icon Dark Contrast Text Size Increase Text icon Increase Text Decrease Text icon Decrease Text Reset font size icon Reset Text Navigation Adjustment Screen Reader iconScreen Reader Follow us MyGov Twitter MyGov Facebook MyGov Youtube MyGov Instagram MyGov Linkedin MyGov Whatsapp GOVERNMENT OF INDIA Accessibility Accessibility Tools Color Adjustment High contrast icon High Contrast Dark contrast icon Dark Contrast Text Size Increase Text icon Increase Text Decrease Text icon Decrease Text Reset font size icon Reset Text Navigation Adjustment Screen Reader iconScreen Reader Follow us MyGov Twitter MyGov Facebook MyGov Youtube MyGov Instagram MyGov Linkedin MyGov Whatsapp Accessibility Accessibility Tools Color Adjustment High contrast icon High Contrast Dark contrast icon Dark Contrast Text Size Increase Text icon Increase Text Decrease Text icon Decrease Text Reset font size icon Reset Text Navigation Adjustment Screen Reader iconScreen Reader Accessibility Tools Color Adjustment High contrast icon High Contrast Dark contrast icon Dark Contrast Text Size Increase Text icon Increase Text Decrease Text icon Decrease Text Reset font size icon Reset Text Navigation Adjustment Screen Reader iconScreen Reader Accessibility Tools Color Adjustment High contrast icon High Contrast Dark contrast icon Dark Contrast Increase Text icon Increase Text Decrease Text icon Decrease Text Reset font size icon Reset Text Navigation Adjustment Screen Reader iconScreen Reader Follow us MyGov Twitter MyGov Facebook MyGov Youtube MyGov Instagram MyGov Linkedin MyGov Whatsapp MyGov Twitter MyGov Facebook MyGov Youtube MyGov Instagram MyGov Linkedin MyGov Whatsapp MyGov Twitter MyGov Facebook MyGov Youtube MyGov Instagram MyGov Linkedin MyGov Whatsapp MyGov Updates E-Books Editorials MyGov Updates Himachal becomes, first smoke-free state of the country WhatsApp Blog By - Team MyGov, Himachal MyGov January 4, 2022 Ujjwala and Himachal Grihini Suvidha scheme of Centre and State government prove boon for the people of the state and making Himachal Pradesh the first state in the country to become a smoke-free state. Ujjwalla Yojna was started by the Centre government with the view to free the women of the country from indoor pollution. Along with this, the Himachal government also started the Grihini Suvidha Yojana to benefit as many women as possible, under the scheme. 3.23 lakh housewives, provided with free gas cylinders under Grihini Suvidha Yojana: Under the Ujjwala yojna with an expenditure of Rs. 21.81 crore 1.36 lakh free domestic connections were given in Himachal, while under the Grihini Suvidha Yojana of the Himachal government, 3.23 lakh housewives were provided free gas cylinders at a cost of Rs. 120 crore.Mukhya Mantri Grihini Suvidha Yojana was launched on 26th May, 2018. With the concerted efforts of the Centre and State government, the women of the state have become free from the indoor pollution. Besides this, in order to conserve environment, free LPG connection is given to families with no gas connection. Both the schemes tremendously helped women especially in rural areas: The objective of launching the Mukhyamantri Grihini Suvidha Yojna was to provide free gas connections to those families who were not covered under the Centre’s Ujjwala scheme. On the lines of the Ujjwala scheme, the state government started the Mukhya Mantri Grihini Suvidha Yojana. The Ujjwala Yojana being run by the Central Government and the Mukhya Mantri Grihini Suvidha Yojana of the State Government have proved to be a boon for the women of Himachal.As a result of Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana and Mukhya Mantri Grihini Suvidha Yojna, the dependence on wood for fuel has reduced. Besides this, the adverse effect of smoke on the health of women has also been relieved and improved the standard of living of women. Himachal becomes, first smoke-free state of the country WhatsApp Blog By - Team MyGov, Himachal MyGov January 4, 2022 Ujjwala and Himachal Grihini Suvidha scheme of Centre and State government prove boon for the people of the state and making Himachal Pradesh the first state in the country to become a smoke-free state. Ujjwalla Yojna was started by the Centre government with the view to free the women of the country from indoor pollution. Along with this, the Himachal government also started the Grihini Suvidha Yojana to benefit as many women as possible, under the scheme. 3.23 lakh housewives, provided with free gas cylinders under Grihini Suvidha Yojana: Under the Ujjwala yojna with an expenditure of Rs. 21.81 crore 1.36 lakh free domestic connections were given in Himachal, while under the Grihini Suvidha Yojana of the Himachal government, 3.23 lakh housewives were provided free gas cylinders at a cost of Rs. 120 crore.Mukhya Mantri Grihini Suvidha Yojana was launched on 26th May, 2018. With the concerted efforts of the Centre and State government, the women of the state have become free from the indoor pollution. Besides this, in order to conserve environment, free LPG connection is given to families with no gas connection. Both the schemes tremendously helped women especially in rural areas: The objective of launching the Mukhyamantri Grihini Suvidha Yojna was to provide free gas connections to those families who were not covered under the Centre’s Ujjwala scheme. On the lines of the Ujjwala scheme, the state government started the Mukhya Mantri Grihini Suvidha Yojana. The Ujjwala Yojana being run by the Central Government and the Mukhya Mantri Grihini Suvidha Yojana of the State Government have proved to be a boon for the women of Himachal.As a result of Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana and Mukhya Mantri Grihini Suvidha Yojna, the dependence on wood for fuel has reduced. Besides this, the adverse effect of smoke on the health of women has also been relieved and improved the standard of living of women. Himachal becomes, first smoke-free state of the country WhatsApp Himachal becomes, first smoke-free state of the country Blog By - Team MyGov, Himachal MyGov January 4, 2022 Ujjwala and Himachal Grihini Suvidha scheme of Centre and State government prove boon for the people of the state and making Himachal Pradesh the first state in the country to become a smoke-free state. Ujjwalla Yojna was started by the Centre government with the view to free the women of the country from indoor pollution. Along with this, the Himachal government also started the Grihini Suvidha Yojana to benefit as many women as possible, under the scheme. 3.23 lakh housewives, provided with free gas cylinders under Grihini Suvidha Yojana: Under the Ujjwala yojna with an expenditure of Rs. 21.81 crore 1.36 lakh free domestic connections were given in Himachal, while under the Grihini Suvidha Yojana of the Himachal government, 3.23 lakh housewives were provided free gas cylinders at a cost of Rs. 120 crore.Mukhya Mantri Grihini Suvidha Yojana was launched on 26th May, 2018. With the concerted efforts of the Centre and State government, the women of the state have become free from the indoor pollution. Besides this, in order to conserve environment, free LPG connection is given to families with no gas connection. Both the schemes tremendously helped women especially in rural areas: The objective of launching the Mukhyamantri Grihini Suvidha Yojna was to provide free gas connections to those families who were not covered under the Centre’s Ujjwala scheme. On the lines of the Ujjwala scheme, the state government started the Mukhya Mantri Grihini Suvidha Yojana. The Ujjwala Yojana being run by the Central Government and the Mukhya Mantri Grihini Suvidha Yojana of the State Government have proved to be a boon for the women of Himachal.As a result of Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana and Mukhya Mantri Grihini Suvidha Yojna, the dependence on wood for fuel has reduced. Besides this, the adverse effect of smoke on the health of women has also been relieved and improved the standard of living of women. Blog By - Team MyGov, Himachal MyGov Himachal MyGov January 4, 2022 Ujjwala and Himachal Grihini Suvidha scheme of Centre and State government prove boon for the people of the state and making Himachal Pradesh the first state in the country to become a smoke-free state. Ujjwalla Yojna was started by the Centre government with the view to free the women of the country from indoor pollution. Along with this, the Himachal government also started the Grihini Suvidha Yojana to benefit as many women as possible, under the scheme. 3.23 lakh housewives, provided with free gas cylinders under Grihini Suvidha Yojana: Under the Ujjwala yojna with an expenditure of Rs. 21.81 crore 1.36 lakh free domestic connections were given in Himachal, while under the Grihini Suvidha Yojana of the Himachal government, 3.23 lakh housewives were provided free gas cylinders at a cost of Rs. 120 crore.Mukhya Mantri Grihini Suvidha Yojana was launched on 26th May, 2018. With the concerted efforts of the Centre and State government, the women of the state have become free from the indoor pollution. Besides this, in order to conserve environment, free LPG connection is given to families with no gas connection. Both the schemes tremendously helped women especially in rural areas: The objective of launching the Mukhyamantri Grihini Suvidha Yojna was to provide free gas connections to those families who were not covered under the Centre’s Ujjwala scheme. On the lines of the Ujjwala scheme, the state government started the Mukhya Mantri Grihini Suvidha Yojana. The Ujjwala Yojana being run by the Central Government and the Mukhya Mantri Grihini Suvidha Yojana of the State Government have proved to be a boon for the women of Himachal.As a result of Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana and Mukhya Mantri Grihini Suvidha Yojna, the dependence on wood for fuel has reduced. Besides this, the adverse effect of smoke on the health of women has also been relieved and improved the standard of living of women. Follow us MyGov Facebook MyGov Twitter MyGov Youtube MyGov Instagram MyGov Linkedin MyGov Whatsapp © Content owned, updated and maintained by the MyGov Cell. This website belongs to MyGov, Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India. Platform is designed, developed and hosted by National Informatics Centre. Last Updated:Sep, 2025 -blog-bh6b7 Follow us MyGov Facebook MyGov Twitter MyGov Youtube MyGov Instagram MyGov Linkedin MyGov Whatsapp © Content owned, updated and maintained by the MyGov Cell. This website belongs to MyGov, Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India. Platform is designed, developed and hosted by National Informatics Centre. Last Updated:Sep, 2025 -blog-bh6b7 Follow us MyGov Facebook MyGov Twitter MyGov Youtube MyGov Instagram MyGov Linkedin MyGov Whatsapp © Content owned, updated and maintained by the MyGov Cell. This website belongs to MyGov, Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India. Platform is designed, developed and hosted by National Informatics Centre. Last Updated:Sep, 2025 -blog-bh6b7 Follow us MyGov Facebook MyGov Twitter MyGov Youtube MyGov Instagram MyGov Linkedin MyGov Whatsapp © Content owned, updated and maintained by the MyGov Cell. This website belongs to MyGov, Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India. Platform is designed, developed and hosted by National Informatics Centre. Last Updated:Sep, 2025 -blog-bh6b7 Follow us MyGov Facebook MyGov Twitter MyGov Youtube MyGov Instagram MyGov Linkedin MyGov Whatsapp Follow us MyGov Facebook MyGov Twitter MyGov Youtube MyGov Instagram MyGov Linkedin MyGov Whatsapp MyGov Facebook MyGov Twitter MyGov Youtube MyGov Instagram MyGov Linkedin MyGov Whatsapp © Content owned, updated and maintained by the MyGov Cell. This website belongs to MyGov, Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India. Platform is designed, developed and hosted by National Informatics Centre. Last Updated:Sep, 2025 -blog-bh6b7 © Content owned, updated and maintained by the MyGov Cell. This website belongs to MyGov, Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India. Platform is designed, developed and hosted by National Informatics Centre. Last Updated:Sep, 2025 -blog-bh6b7