Source: https://bigwire.in/2018/06/23/who-is-dr-atul-gawande/
Title: Who is Dr. Atul Gawande?
Words: 2863

================================================================================

Share Tweet Share Share Email Comments Indian-origin doctor Dr. Atul Gawande has been appointed as the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the recently-formed healthcare venture started by American giants Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway, and JP Morgan Chase. A world-renowned surgeon, writer and public health innovator, Dr. Atul Gawande will take charge of the Boston-based company from July 9. Here is everything that you need to know about Dr. Gawande: 1. Dr. Gawande practices general and endocrine surgery at Brigham and Women’s Hospital. 2. He is a professor at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health and Harvard Medical School. 3. Dr. Gawande is also the founder and and Executive Director of Ariadne Labs, a joint center between Brigham and Women’s Hospital and the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health started in 2012. 4. He is into journalism as well. Dr. Atul Gawande is a staff writer of The New Yorker magazine. 5. He is also a writer. He has four New York Times bestsellers to his credit. In 2002, he came up with Complications: A Surgeon’s Notes on an Imperfect Science, which was a National Book Award finalist. His second book was published in 2007 – Better: A Surgeon’s Notes on Performance. The third book came in 2009 – The Checklist Manifesto: How to Get Things Right. The fourth book was Being Mortal: Medicine and What Matters in the End (2014). It was #1 New York Times bestseller. 6. Dr. Gawande has always been vocal and extensively written about America’s failure to control rising health-care expenditure. His rise to fame as a top heathcare policy expert came in a 2009 he penned a New Yorker article – “The Cost Conundrum”. 7. Dr. Gawande was born November 5, 1965 at Brooklyn in New York to Marathi parents. His mother was a pediatrician, while his father was a urologist. Both of them were US immigrants. 8. He graduated from Athens High School in 1983 and obtained his undergraduate degree in biology and political science from Stanford University in 1987. 9. Dr. Atul Gawande was a Rhodes scholar. He completed his M.A. in Philosophy, Politics and Economics (PPE) from Balliol College, Oxford in 1989. 10. In 1995, he graduated with a Doctor of Medicine from Harvard Medical School . Later in 1999, he earned a Master of Public Health from the Harvard School of Public Health. 11. His general surgical residency training was completed at Harvard in 2003. 12. Dr. Atul Gawande played an active role in former US President Bill Clinton’s healthcare campaign in 1992. 13. He has numerous awards and honours to his credit. He was named a MacArthur Fellow in 2006. In 2007, he was appointed the director of the World Health Organization’s (WHO’s) effort on reducing surgical deaths. He was elected a Hastings Center Fellow in 2009. Big Wire Pic credit: Dr. Atul Gawande Facebook account Related Items:Featured Share Tweet Share Share Email Recommended for you America’s Gift of European Spring: Illusion of Control – A Critique Care for Water: Save Your Planet India, Oil, and the Hollow U.S. Narrative Click to comment Leave a Reply Cancel replyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * Email * Website Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. Share Tweet Share Share Email Comments Indian-origin doctor Dr. Atul Gawande has been appointed as the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the recently-formed healthcare venture started by American giants Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway, and JP Morgan Chase. A world-renowned surgeon, writer and public health innovator, Dr. Atul Gawande will take charge of the Boston-based company from July 9. Here is everything that you need to know about Dr. Gawande: 1. Dr. Gawande practices general and endocrine surgery at Brigham and Women’s Hospital. 2. He is a professor at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health and Harvard Medical School. 3. Dr. Gawande is also the founder and and Executive Director of Ariadne Labs, a joint center between Brigham and Women’s Hospital and the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health started in 2012. 4. He is into journalism as well. Dr. Atul Gawande is a staff writer of The New Yorker magazine. 5. He is also a writer. He has four New York Times bestsellers to his credit. In 2002, he came up with Complications: A Surgeon’s Notes on an Imperfect Science, which was a National Book Award finalist. His second book was published in 2007 – Better: A Surgeon’s Notes on Performance. The third book came in 2009 – The Checklist Manifesto: How to Get Things Right. The fourth book was Being Mortal: Medicine and What Matters in the End (2014). It was #1 New York Times bestseller. 6. Dr. Gawande has always been vocal and extensively written about America’s failure to control rising health-care expenditure. His rise to fame as a top heathcare policy expert came in a 2009 he penned a New Yorker article – “The Cost Conundrum”. 7. Dr. Gawande was born November 5, 1965 at Brooklyn in New York to Marathi parents. His mother was a pediatrician, while his father was a urologist. Both of them were US immigrants. 8. He graduated from Athens High School in 1983 and obtained his undergraduate degree in biology and political science from Stanford University in 1987. 9. Dr. Atul Gawande was a Rhodes scholar. He completed his M.A. in Philosophy, Politics and Economics (PPE) from Balliol College, Oxford in 1989. 10. In 1995, he graduated with a Doctor of Medicine from Harvard Medical School . Later in 1999, he earned a Master of Public Health from the Harvard School of Public Health. 11. His general surgical residency training was completed at Harvard in 2003. 12. Dr. Atul Gawande played an active role in former US President Bill Clinton’s healthcare campaign in 1992. 13. He has numerous awards and honours to his credit. He was named a MacArthur Fellow in 2006. In 2007, he was appointed the director of the World Health Organization’s (WHO’s) effort on reducing surgical deaths. He was elected a Hastings Center Fellow in 2009. Big Wire Pic credit: Dr. Atul Gawande Facebook account Related Items:Featured Share Tweet Share Share Email Recommended for you America’s Gift of European Spring: Illusion of Control – A Critique Care for Water: Save Your Planet India, Oil, and the Hollow U.S. Narrative Click to comment Leave a Reply Cancel replyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * Email * Website Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. Share Tweet Share Share Email Comments Indian-origin doctor Dr. Atul Gawande has been appointed as the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the recently-formed healthcare venture started by American giants Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway, and JP Morgan Chase. A world-renowned surgeon, writer and public health innovator, Dr. Atul Gawande will take charge of the Boston-based company from July 9. Here is everything that you need to know about Dr. Gawande: 1. Dr. Gawande practices general and endocrine surgery at Brigham and Women’s Hospital. 2. He is a professor at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health and Harvard Medical School. 3. Dr. Gawande is also the founder and and Executive Director of Ariadne Labs, a joint center between Brigham and Women’s Hospital and the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health started in 2012. 4. He is into journalism as well. Dr. Atul Gawande is a staff writer of The New Yorker magazine. 5. He is also a writer. He has four New York Times bestsellers to his credit. In 2002, he came up with Complications: A Surgeon’s Notes on an Imperfect Science, which was a National Book Award finalist. His second book was published in 2007 – Better: A Surgeon’s Notes on Performance. The third book came in 2009 – The Checklist Manifesto: How to Get Things Right. The fourth book was Being Mortal: Medicine and What Matters in the End (2014). It was #1 New York Times bestseller. 6. Dr. Gawande has always been vocal and extensively written about America’s failure to control rising health-care expenditure. His rise to fame as a top heathcare policy expert came in a 2009 he penned a New Yorker article – “The Cost Conundrum”. 7. Dr. Gawande was born November 5, 1965 at Brooklyn in New York to Marathi parents. His mother was a pediatrician, while his father was a urologist. Both of them were US immigrants. 8. He graduated from Athens High School in 1983 and obtained his undergraduate degree in biology and political science from Stanford University in 1987. 9. Dr. Atul Gawande was a Rhodes scholar. He completed his M.A. in Philosophy, Politics and Economics (PPE) from Balliol College, Oxford in 1989. 10. In 1995, he graduated with a Doctor of Medicine from Harvard Medical School . Later in 1999, he earned a Master of Public Health from the Harvard School of Public Health. 11. His general surgical residency training was completed at Harvard in 2003. 12. Dr. Atul Gawande played an active role in former US President Bill Clinton’s healthcare campaign in 1992. 13. He has numerous awards and honours to his credit. He was named a MacArthur Fellow in 2006. In 2007, he was appointed the director of the World Health Organization’s (WHO’s) effort on reducing surgical deaths. He was elected a Hastings Center Fellow in 2009. Big Wire Pic credit: Dr. Atul Gawande Facebook account Related Items:Featured Share Tweet Share Share Email Recommended for you America’s Gift of European Spring: Illusion of Control – A Critique Care for Water: Save Your Planet India, Oil, and the Hollow U.S. Narrative Click to comment Leave a Reply Cancel replyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * Email * Website Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. Share Tweet Share Share Email Comments Indian-origin doctor Dr. Atul Gawande has been appointed as the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the recently-formed healthcare venture started by American giants Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway, and JP Morgan Chase. A world-renowned surgeon, writer and public health innovator, Dr. Atul Gawande will take charge of the Boston-based company from July 9. Here is everything that you need to know about Dr. Gawande: 1. Dr. Gawande practices general and endocrine surgery at Brigham and Women’s Hospital. 2. He is a professor at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health and Harvard Medical School. 3. Dr. Gawande is also the founder and and Executive Director of Ariadne Labs, a joint center between Brigham and Women’s Hospital and the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health started in 2012. 4. He is into journalism as well. Dr. Atul Gawande is a staff writer of The New Yorker magazine. 5. He is also a writer. He has four New York Times bestsellers to his credit. In 2002, he came up with Complications: A Surgeon’s Notes on an Imperfect Science, which was a National Book Award finalist. His second book was published in 2007 – Better: A Surgeon’s Notes on Performance. The third book came in 2009 – The Checklist Manifesto: How to Get Things Right. The fourth book was Being Mortal: Medicine and What Matters in the End (2014). It was #1 New York Times bestseller. 6. Dr. Gawande has always been vocal and extensively written about America’s failure to control rising health-care expenditure. His rise to fame as a top heathcare policy expert came in a 2009 he penned a New Yorker article – “The Cost Conundrum”. 7. Dr. Gawande was born November 5, 1965 at Brooklyn in New York to Marathi parents. His mother was a pediatrician, while his father was a urologist. Both of them were US immigrants. 8. He graduated from Athens High School in 1983 and obtained his undergraduate degree in biology and political science from Stanford University in 1987. 9. Dr. Atul Gawande was a Rhodes scholar. He completed his M.A. in Philosophy, Politics and Economics (PPE) from Balliol College, Oxford in 1989. 10. In 1995, he graduated with a Doctor of Medicine from Harvard Medical School . Later in 1999, he earned a Master of Public Health from the Harvard School of Public Health. 11. His general surgical residency training was completed at Harvard in 2003. 12. Dr. Atul Gawande played an active role in former US President Bill Clinton’s healthcare campaign in 1992. 13. He has numerous awards and honours to his credit. He was named a MacArthur Fellow in 2006. In 2007, he was appointed the director of the World Health Organization’s (WHO’s) effort on reducing surgical deaths. He was elected a Hastings Center Fellow in 2009. Big Wire Pic credit: Dr. Atul Gawande Facebook account Related Items:Featured Share Tweet Share Share Email Recommended for you America’s Gift of European Spring: Illusion of Control – A Critique Care for Water: Save Your Planet India, Oil, and the Hollow U.S. Narrative Click to comment Leave a Reply Cancel replyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * Email * Website Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. Indian-origin doctor Dr. Atul Gawande has been appointed as the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the recently-formed healthcare venture started by American giants Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway, and JP Morgan Chase. A world-renowned surgeon, writer and public health innovator, Dr. Atul Gawande will take charge of the Boston-based company from July 9. Here is everything that you need to know about Dr. Gawande: 1. Dr. Gawande practices general and endocrine surgery at Brigham and Women’s Hospital. 2. He is a professor at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health and Harvard Medical School. 3. Dr. Gawande is also the founder and and Executive Director of Ariadne Labs, a joint center between Brigham and Women’s Hospital and the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health started in 2012. 4. He is into journalism as well. Dr. Atul Gawande is a staff writer of The New Yorker magazine. 5. He is also a writer. He has four New York Times bestsellers to his credit. In 2002, he came up with Complications: A Surgeon’s Notes on an Imperfect Science, which was a National Book Award finalist. His second book was published in 2007 – Better: A Surgeon’s Notes on Performance. The third book came in 2009 – The Checklist Manifesto: How to Get Things Right. The fourth book was Being Mortal: Medicine and What Matters in the End (2014). It was #1 New York Times bestseller. 6. Dr. Gawande has always been vocal and extensively written about America’s failure to control rising health-care expenditure. His rise to fame as a top heathcare policy expert came in a 2009 he penned a New Yorker article – “The Cost Conundrum”. 7. Dr. Gawande was born November 5, 1965 at Brooklyn in New York to Marathi parents. His mother was a pediatrician, while his father was a urologist. Both of them were US immigrants. 8. He graduated from Athens High School in 1983 and obtained his undergraduate degree in biology and political science from Stanford University in 1987. 9. Dr. Atul Gawande was a Rhodes scholar. He completed his M.A. in Philosophy, Politics and Economics (PPE) from Balliol College, Oxford in 1989. 10. In 1995, he graduated with a Doctor of Medicine from Harvard Medical School . Later in 1999, he earned a Master of Public Health from the Harvard School of Public Health. 11. His general surgical residency training was completed at Harvard in 2003. 12. Dr. Atul Gawande played an active role in former US President Bill Clinton’s healthcare campaign in 1992. 13. He has numerous awards and honours to his credit. He was named a MacArthur Fellow in 2006. In 2007, he was appointed the director of the World Health Organization’s (WHO’s) effort on reducing surgical deaths. He was elected a Hastings Center Fellow in 2009. Pic credit: Dr. Atul Gawande Facebook account Related Items:Featured Share Tweet Share Share Email Recommended for you America’s Gift of European Spring: Illusion of Control – A Critique Care for Water: Save Your Planet India, Oil, and the Hollow U.S. Narrative Recommended for you America’s Gift of European Spring: Illusion of Control – A Critique America’s Gift of European Spring: Illusion of Control – A Critique Care for Water: Save Your Planet Care for Water: Save Your Planet India, Oil, and the Hollow U.S. Narrative India, Oil, and the Hollow U.S. Narrative Click to comment Leave a Reply Cancel replyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * Email * Website Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. Leave a Reply Cancel replyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * Email * Website Δ Leave a Reply Cancel reply Leave a Reply Leave a Reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.