Source: http://islamiacollege.edu.in/idp.pdf
Words: 3516

================================================================================

1 | P ag e I D P 2020- 202 4 I s l a mi a Co l l eg e o f S ci en ce & Co mm er ce, S r i n a g ar CONTENTS S. No. Particulars Page No. 1. About institution 3 2. Institutional vision and mission 4 3. Brief Profile of the College 5 4. Institutional Development Plan- Brief 5 5. Academic Journey ahead 5 5.1 Academics – Academic leap-2020 5 5.2 Academic Excellence 6 5.3 Autonomous status extension 6 6 ICT Implementation for Transparency and Better Outcomes. 7 6.1 ERP Implementation 7 6.2 Establishment of Centralised Data Centre 7 6.3 Campus Area Networking 7 6.4 ICT enabled classrooms 7 6.5 Online student services 7 6.6 Centralised Documentation Centre 7 7 Infrastructural Augmentation. 8 7.1 Administration, Examination and Admission verticals 8 7.2 Auditorium 8 7.3 Campus beautification and classroom security 8 7.4 PG Block 8 7.5 Parking area development 9 7.6 Canteen renovation 9 7.7 Hostel renovation 9 8 Capacity Building School 9 8.1 Objectives of CapacityBuilding School 9 8.2 Structure of CapacityBuilding School 10 8.3 Functions of Capacity Building School 10 8.4 Requirements of CapacityBuilding School. 10 9 Special initiatives for Skill , Innovation and Research under NEP 2020 10 9.1 Skill and Incubation Center. 11 9.2 Research Center 11 10 e-Content Creation. 11 10.1 Establishment of e-Content creation Center. 11 2 | P ag e I D P 2020- 202 4 I s l a mi a Co l l eg e o f S ci en ce & Co mm er ce, S r i n a g ar 1. ABOUT INSTITUTION: Established in 1961 by the State Government to offer higher education at both undergraduate and postgraduate levels in various disciplines of science and management studies, the missionary zeal of the fraternity enabled the College to top the educational map of our state both in academic and co-curricular ventures. Human resource and physical infrastructural development and installation of latest technology in the laboratories undoubtedly place this College as a premier one in the country. The College has been enormously supplying to the needs of the human resource development of the state and will continue to render its services to meet the global scientific and technological challenges of the future times. Recognizing all these credentials of the College the National Assessment and Accreditation council Bangalore (NAAC) Re-accredited this College at “A” level with institutional score as 3.27 CGPA in august, 2017. Over the years, the College has emerged as an institute of excellence incomparable with others in all respects. Performance of our pass-outs in University, Medical, Engineering and Management examinations has been exceptionally outstanding. The College has contributed to the development of our society in terms of producing and polishing great academicians, able managers, bureaucrats and galaxy of intellectuals contributing now in different walks of life. The College is dedicated toward inculcating human values, spirit of tolerance and modern perspectives among its aspirants. To attain these ideals and to come up to the expectations of our people, College strives to be relevant in the field of management, science and technology and has been introducing new courses on regular intervals. The academic credentials and the prestige of the College in 2010 attracted the attention of University Grants Commission, New Delhi and the College was granted CPE status (College with Potential for Excellence) the only College in J & K State. The College has been declared as an Autonomous College under section 2(b-a) of the Kashmir and Jammu Universities Act No. XXIV of 1969 (as amended in 2014) for a period of six years (2014-15 To 2019-2020) under UGC Notification No.F.22-1/2014(AC) dated 03-08-2014 followed by University Notification No.F(Auto-Status-ICSC)Acad/KU/14 Dated 13-10-2014. The institution is envisioning to see that the stake holders which include both students and faculty have sufficient facilities to engage in teaching learning in productive and in a manner which is outcome based. The prime priority of the institution is to enhance its academic footprint and offer programmes which are job oriented and exclusive. Further, the institution plans to create sufficient infrastructure like well- equipped ICT class rooms, Centralised Data Centre, an auditorium, enhancing the existing laboratory 3 | P ag e I D P 2020- 202 4 I s l a mi a Co l l eg e o f S ci en ce & Co mm er ce, S r i n a g ar infrastructure to the state-of-the-art laboratories, maintenance of hostels, improvements in terms of facelifting for the College canteen. The College focuses in engaging in innovative teaching practices to decimate quality education to our students. To aid and to assist the student community the College had well developed Committees in place which include Scholarship Committee, Sports Committee, Placement Committee, NSS Committee, Debates and Cultural Committee assortment of committees and cells are functioning to empower the students like Placement cell, Women Empowerment and Harassment prevention cell, NSS, Red Cross, Scouts and Guides, Sports committee, Cultural committee, Red Ribbon and Students welfare committee to name a few. 2. VISION OF THE INSTITUTION: The Islamia College of Science and Commerce, Srinagar aims to emerge as a great seat of higher learning and centre of excellence in the field of education by inculcating and promoting the values of humanity, cosmopolitan outlook, spirit of tolerance, brotherhood and modern scientific perspective among its aspirants. It is already working as a vibrant hub of cultural, sporting and extra-curricular activities, which benefit and strengthen the finest traditions of the region and its civil society. The institution also seeks to become a technologically advanced campus so that the aspirants carry forward the mission of generating human resource and development to meet the twin tests of academic excellence and social relevance. The College is on the path of being transformed into a deemed university and also aspires to emerge as a university of national and international repute. 2. MISSION OF THE INSTITUTION: The mission of our College is to realize our vision to the fullest. We provide equal opportunity to the aspirants without prejudice to religion, region, caste, creed, colour, sex, ethnicity, etc. To be relevant we keep on upgrading human and infra-structural resources and identity and introduce the emerging courses in the field of science, technology, humanities, and management studies. To ensure the harmonious growth and development of our society we patronize the underprivileged and downtrodden sections of our society by educating and helping them financially so that they contribute and participate in general human welfare. Above all to live with a noble purpose and harmony with others, the College polishes its aspirants with a spirit of brotherhood, tolerance and universal human values. 4 | P ag e I D P 2020- 202 4 I s l a mi a Co l l eg e o f S ci en ce & Co mm er ce, S r i n a g ar 3. BRIEF PROFILE OF THE COLLEGE Year of Establishment August, 1961 Status State Funded (Autonomous) UGC Autonomous Status w.e from 2014-15 to 2019-2020and extended thereof. Affiliation Affiliated to the University of Kashmir NAAC Re-Accreditation August, 2017 Grade “A” CGPA 3.27 4. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN: The College has developed an Institutional Development Plan catering to the needs of stakeholders to make the institution more vibrant,attractive and purposeful. The College vide order No.362 dated 30-11-2019 constituted IDP Committee who ensured that the vision and mission of the College forms the bedrock and propose interventions that will enable the College to realise its potential to maximum extent. The Committee proposed the following interventions as a form of a detailed roadmap for the tenure 2020-2024. The institutional development plan spans across almost all the spheres of institutional development. The focus areas as proposed for the College as IDP 2019-2024 are listed as under: 5. ACADEMIC JOURNEY AHEAD. 5.1 ACADEMICS - ACADEMIC LEAP 2020 The College has been pioneering in launch of new programmes for the benefit of student community in general and to the society in particular. In this regard the College envisages to introduce the following programmes from 2020 onwards: a. Integrated PG in Zoology b. Integrated PG in Botany c. Integrated PG in Chemistry d. Hons Programmes in the fields of; a. Zoology b. Botany c. Chemistry d. Nano-Science and Nano-Technology e. Economics 5 | P ag e I D P 2020- 202 4 I s l a mi a Co l l eg e o f S ci en ce & Co mm er ce, S r i n a g ar e. PG Programmes in: a. Botany b. Chemistry c. Zoology The plan incorporates for augmentation of laboratories in terms of purchase of equipment’s, upgradation of laboratories up to the tune of Rs.30.00 lacs approximately for UG and PG programmes in Botany, Zoology and Chemistry and establishment of departments and lab for Economics, Nano-Tech up to the tune of Rs.4.00 lacs approximately. 5.2 ACADEMIC EXCELLENCE: The College will focus on achieving academic excellence and measure to achieve excellence in academics would be to incorporate by adopting the following methodologies: a. Syllabus Quantification; b. Continuous Assessment; Syllabus Quantification: Every student enrolled from 2020 onwards will be provided a detailed breakup of lectures across prescribed syllabi with defined timelines of completion and details of every topic that the student will be delivered with. This mechanism will streamline the students and they will be abreast and in sync with proceedings of a course. This mechanism shall ensure that the students are privy to the progression of the syllabi and will aid in avoiding absenteeism. Continuous Assessment: Another methodology of continuously evaluating the students through periodical tests termed as T-series will be put to effect from 2020 onwards, wherein the teachers will evaluate students continuously on per pre-defined time periods. This evaluation will be structured based on predefined evaluating methods. Due weightage shall be given to T-Series test conducted by the teacher to make it more meaningful. 5.3 AUTONOMOUS STATUS EXTENSION: In view of the ensuing academic autonomy conferred to the College by the University Grants Commission the College needs to take all the necessary steps to ensure extension in the autonomy in a transparent and efficient manner. In this regard College must create separate verticals for the Examinations and Admissions for the College. Consolidation of all the relevant facts and figures pertaining to working as an autonomous institution. The detailed creation of verticals will be detailed under 6.0 infrastructure heading of the IDP. 6 | P ag e I D P 2020- 202 4 I s l a mi a Co l l eg e o f S ci en ce & Co mm er ce, S r i n a g ar 6. ICT Implementation for Transparency and Better Outcomes. 6.1 ERP Implementation: The College has been working to automate its Examination and Admission primarily from the time academic autonomy was granted by the UGC. The College has developed inhouse software solutions for automation of examinations and admissions. The College willincorporate a full-fledged ERP solution for the entire institution in terms of adding software modules such as employee management, asset management, document workflow management etc. Development of a data centre alongwith creation of a campus area network, creation of a studio and providing high speed internet access all across campus was put forth to be completed by 2024. 6.2 ESTABLISHMENT OF CENTRALISED DATA CENTRE: The centre will be established with a state of art hardware/software network equipment’s. This data centre will act as a central hub for all ERP related activities and this data centre will host in house created video lectures and demonstrations. 6.3 CAMPUS AREA NETWORKING: An intranet solution in terms of laying of cables and procurement of switches/hubs etc. for establishment of end-to-end connectivity with the College data centre and integration of any digital board solutions. 6.4 ICT ENABLED CLASSROOMS: For effective teaching by 2024 all the classrooms and labs should be ICT enabled. For the same solutions like Digital Boards , Student Biometric and Hybrid Learning tools will be added in a structured way. 6.5 ONLINE STUDENT SERVICES: To reduce the footprint of students visiting College and to facilitate the student community to apply and obtain services. It is proposed that by 2022 all common student services such as issuance of transcripts, Bonafede certificate, Discharge certificates, migration certificates, verification mechanisms be made available to the students of the College. 7 | P ag e I D P 2020- 202 4 I s l a mi a Co l l eg e o f S ci en ce & Co mm er ce, S r i n a g ar 6.6 CENTRALISED DOCUMENTATION CENTRE: In order to facilitate the students and faculty for their documents requirements, a centralised documentation centre shall be created. This facility will provide services to both students and faculty on discounted payment rates. This facility will self-sustain in terms of recurring cost. 7-INFRASTRUCTURAL AUGMENTATION. 7.1 ADMINISTRATION, EXAMINATION AND ADMISSION VERTICALS: For providing adequate and secure space the College needs to create a separate Administration Block on campus which must house all the administrative offices and accounts offices with guest conference facilities with all modern facilities for this block. This block must be in isolation with classroom area so as to avoid interference with teaching learning. The essence of autonomy is to formulate and launch a new programme, close programmes which are not relevant and examination which is the backbone of the autonomous system. In this regard a separate vertical for examination and admission be developed wherein the admission offers access to the students in a convenient manner and examination on the other hand must be secure and bared from any un- authorised access. 7.2 AUDITORIUM: The College has no auditorium to carryout co-curricular activities and NAAC Peer Teams have always pointed out this deficiency. In order to overcome this deficiency College will create an Auditorium with a minimum seating capacity of 400. 7.3 CAMPUS BEAUTIFICATION AND CLASSROOM SECURITY: To make College attractive all necessary measures will be taken to beautify the campus which will include civil works such as cladding of corridors with tiles, facelifting the front façade of the College. Painting of College walls and classrooms, providing adequate lighting in classrooms, installation of fans in classrooms, installation of ACs in labs and make classrooms secure by installing robust doors and iron grills to accommodate digital board/digital podium or overhead projector safely. 8 | P ag e I D P 2020- 202 4 I s l a mi a Co l l eg e o f S ci en ce & Co mm er ce, S r i n a g ar 7.4 PG BLOCK: The College has launched a slew of PG programmes. To make these programmes attractive and to provide adequate and state of art futuristic accommodation to the students enrolled in these programmes. The College will come up with a separate PG Block to accommodate all PG students of the College. 7.5 PARKING AREA DEVELOPMENT: Over the time the College has witnessed increase in the number of vehicles entering campus belonging to the stake holders. In order to provide safe parking space, the College will develop three parking slots in the College. 7.6 CANTEEN RENOVATION: The College will upgrade the student Canteen to make it more attractive and hygienic. The Canteen will provision separate seating arrangements for boys and girls. 7.7 HOSTEL RENOVATION: The College will renovate / facelift the hostel facilities to make hostels HomeAway from home for the hoteliers of College. 8. CAPACITY BUILDING SCHOOL Islamia college will develop a Capacity Building School as Capacity-building is the process of developing and strengthening the skills, instincts, abilities, processes and resources that organizations and communities need to survive, adapt, and thrive in a fast-changing world. The country is in the process of transforming the field of higher education. It is estimated that India’s higher education will: • Adopt transformative and innovative approaches in Higher education. • Have an augmented Gross Enrolment Ratio (GER) of 50 per cent • Reduce state-wise, gender based and social disparity in GER to 5 per cent. • Emerge as a single largest provider of global talent, with one in four graduates in the world being a product of the Indian higher education system. • Be among the top five countries in the world in terms of research output. • Have more than 20 universities among the global top 200. 9 | P ag e I D P 2020- 202 4 I s l a mi a Co l l eg e o f S ci en ce & Co mm er ce, S r i n a g ar 8.1 OBJECTIVES OF THIS CAPACITY BUILDING SCHOOL Keeping the changes that are unfolding in higher education, the Capacity Building School shall strive to Enhance the skills, instincts, abilities, of the teachers broadly through: a. Organizing learning programmes for serving teachers, with a focus on skill set upgradation and development across disciplines. b. Organizing seminars, symposia, workshops on current trends occurring across globe, aimed at enhancing the outlook, upgrade & orient the teachers to adapt to trends in this fast changing world. c. Organizing programmes on theme-based topics like Academic leadership, Technology Enhanced Learning, Disaster Management and Learning Outcome Based Education including evaluation. d. Organizing specially designed courses in IT for new entrants as well as for in-service teachers. e. organizing workshops training programmes across domains to equip the associate staff viz lab staff of the colleges to arm them with valuable skillset to enable them to be more productive and abreast with the changing trends. The objectives of the Capacity Building School in the light of above shall be focused towards enabling all the faculty members of HEIs new as well as old faculty members: • To enable them to keep abreast of the latest developments in their specific subjects; • To acquire and improve basic skills of teaching at the college level to achieve goals of higher education; • utilize opportunities for development of personality, initiative and creativity; 8.2 STRUCTURE OF CAPACITY BUILDING SCHOOL The Capacity Building School shall have its structure for which the academic and non-academic staff shall be engaged. 8.3 FUNCTIONS OF CAPACITY BUILDING SCHOOL: 10 | P ag e I D P 2020- 202 4 I s l a mi a Co l l eg e o f S ci en ce & Co mm er ce, S r i n a g ar The functions of Capacity Building School, will be to plan, organize, implement & monitor programmes such as Trainings, Workshops, Seminars, symposia for college teachers within the jurisdiction of one or more colleges in the Kashmir division initially, gradually extending other divisions and subsequently reaching out to the entire Country, capacity building shall also assist in Student Induction Program. SPECIFICALLY, CAPACITY BUILDING SCHOOL, WILL: a. Formulate programme(s). b. Identify resource persons in various fields of specialization for running the designed programme. c. Produce specially designed material required for effective implementation of the courses. Organize, monitor and evaluate Programmes(s) for teachers / Lab staff. 8.4 REQUIREMENTS FOR CAPACITY BUILDING SCHOOL. College will for the purpose create a smart conference hall/classroom capable of accommodating at least 30 participants initially and subsequently increase it to 50. With all the facilities including power back-ups, air conditioning, internet facilities, reprography center, etc. Office setup for the school, which will include office of the staff and the school coordinator. 9. SPECIAL INITIATIVES FOR SKILL, INNOVATION AND RESEARCH UNDER NEP 2020 In the light of NEP 2020 college will be developing robust verticals of Skill Development , Innovation -Incubation-Start up and Research. Towards the same the college will have a special focus for Skill Development and Ideation & Start up in the domains of IT , Computers and Electronics. Further college will create a research echo system in Commerce and Management the areas wherein college has lot of expertise. 9.1 By 2024 college plans to have a state of the art Skill and Incubation center in the domains of IT ,Computers and Electronics. 9.2 By 2024 college will have a Research centre in the domain of commerce and Management with scope for Ph.D registration for college pass outs. 10. e-Content creation. To strengthen blended mode of learning college intends to establish a state of the art e- Content creation centre with facilities of recording and live transmission of lectures. 10.1 The state of the art centre will be established by 2023 with connectivity across classroom in the campus. 11 | P ag e I D P 2020- 202 4 I s l a mi a Co l l eg e o f S ci en ce & Co mm er ce, S r i n a g ar NOTE : The IDP document will be revisited in the light of changes in Higher Education as and when they occur. -----------------------------------------------------End of DocumentIDP 2020-24----------------------------------------- 12 | P ag e I D P 2020- 202 4 I s l a mi a Co l l eg e o f S ci en ce & Co mm er ce, S r i n a g ar