Source: https://advocatetanmoy.com/india/letter-by-abhay-charan-de-to-vallabhbhai-patel-dy-pm-of-india-on-gandhian-movement-28-02-1949/
Title: Letter by Abhay Charan De to Vallabhbhai Patel Dy PM of India on Gandhian Movement  28/02/1949
Words: 11211

================================================================================

Hon. Sardar Dr. Vallavbhaiji Patel Deputy Prime Minister, Government of IndiaIndia Hind/ hend >hindia. Bharat Varsha (Jambudvipa used in Mahavamsha) is the name of this land mass. The people of this land are Sanatan Dharmin and they always defeated invaders. Indra (10000 yrs) was the oldest deified King of this land. Manu's jurisprudence enlitened this land. Vedas have been the civilizational literature of this land. Guiding principles of this land are : सत्यं वद । धर्मं चर । स्वाध्यायान्मा प्रमदः । The place also been called Hindusthan in Pesia. The word Hendu is mentioned in Avesta. Read more, New DelhiNew Delhi Indraprastha, the capital of Emperor Yudhisthira and Pandavas constructed by Mayasura, where Rajasuya Yagna was performed under the guidance of Krishna Dvaipayana and the protection of Vasudeva Krishna in the present-day Raja Ghat area. Prtvi Rajaj was the last Hindu king of Delhi.. February 28, 1949 Revered Sir, May your honour accept my humble namaskara. Your honour is well known as the iron man of India but I knowKnowledge Knowledge is derived from the process of an informed person integrating data from sense organs or intuition into their psyche. This concept is explored in the Vedic Nasadiya Sukta, which questions the possibility of ultimate truth or knowledge. In different languages, such as Greek, Latin, Sanskrit, and Chinese, knowledge is expressed as "η γνώση," "Scientia," "ज्ञानम्‌ ," and "知识 Zhīshì," respectively. that you the most practical man who can take things as they are. With this idea in view I venture to approach your honour for submitting the following few lines for your consideration and necessary action. FundsFund The term refers to assets of every kind, whether corporeal or incorporeal, tangible or intangible, movable or immovable, however acquired, and legal documents or instruments in any form, including electronic or digital, evidencing title to, or interest in, such assets. are being collected to commemorate Mahatma Gandhiji in a fitting manner and I beg to suggest that the same may be done in the Gandhian way and not otherwise. Gandhiji’s whole life was dedicated to the service of humanityHuman Ο άνθρωπος (Humanum> Homo sapiens) मानव:. We have failed to consider the minimum need to be a 'human'. For Christians, human beings are sinful creatures, who need some saviour. For Evolution biology a man is still evolving, for what, we don´t know. For Buddhist Nagarjuna, the realisation of having a human body is a mere mental illusion. We are not ready to accept that a human is a computer made of meat. For a slave master, a human person is another animal, his sons and daughters are his personal property. at large with special interest for raising the moralMorality Mental frame. It can be high morality or low morality, savage morality or civilised morality or Christian morality, or Nazi morality. Decent Behaviour is acceptable norms of the nations. Christian morality starts with the belief that all men are sinners and that repentance is the cause of divine mercy. Putting Crucified Christ in between is the destruction of Christian morality and logic. Now morality shifted to the personal choice of Jesus. What Jesus did is 'good'. The same would be the case of Ram, Krishna, Muhammad, Buddha, Lenin, etc. Pure Human Consciousness degraded to pure followership. There exists no proof the animals are devoid of morality. standard. His later activities showed that he was equal to everyone and all the peopleMen Ανθρωποι (People), a woman (γυναίκα), Man (Ανδρας) > Adama, Manu > No proof to establish that due to mutation a monkey turned into a human being. of the worldWorld Κόσμος knew him more as a spiritualSpiritual Inspirational or inspired, energetic, motivated. It is all about earthly potency. It can not be translated as Adhatmya in Sanskrit. 'Christian Spirituality' means being motivated by Christian ideas. An airy or thin, like invisible earthly matter, is also called Spiritual. "Take and receive my spirit" means take courage from me, or just blowing wind from one's mouth. leader than a mere politician. Devotion to Godhead was his ultimate aim and when I say that his sacred memoryMemory It is the process of storing and then remembering this information. Forgetting may be a sign of a more serious problem, such as: Alzheimer's disease, Other types of dementia, Stroke, Depression, Head injuries, Blood clots or tumors in the brain, Kidney, liver, or thyroid problems, Reactions to certain medicines, should be perpetuated not in the ordinary way but in the Gandhian way, I mean that fitting respect to his memory will be done in the following manner. 1. In the midst of his multifarious duties, Gandhiji never missed to attend to his Ramdhun kirtana meeting. This is one of the soundest method for the culture of devotion to GodGod People in most cultures believe in the existence of supernatural beings and other supernatural concepts. God is attributed to both anthropomorphic properties (“listens to prayers”) and non-anthropomorphic properties (“knows everything”). Conceptualizing God is associated with willingness to get the COVID-19 vaccine or Vaccine hesitancy. Pope requested people not to practice “Jesus is my vaccine”. For the Jewish, family (Avestan universal) god became national God: I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob,”(ex 3:15). See Ishwar. . In the opinionOpinion A judge's written explanation of a decision of the court. In an appeal, multiple opinions may be written. The court’s ruling comes from a majority of judges and forms the majority opinion. A dissenting opinion disagrees with the majority because of the reasoning and/or the principles of law on which the decision is based. A concurring opinion agrees with the end result of the court but offers further comment possibly because they disagree with how the court reached its conclusion. of Srimad-Bhagavatam, one who is imbibed with the devotion of Godhead is also endowed with all the good qualities of the gods. But one who is not a devotee of Godhead, has not any value for his good qualities because he utilizes his so called good qualities for ulterior purposes. As such the easy way to raise the moral standard of people in general, is to make this sankirtana movement more popular all over the world by philosophical discourses based on reasoning and moral and ethical codes. The Vaisnava acaryas especially LordLord Adoni in Hebrew (אָדוֹן) and dominions in Larin. άρχοντας / κύριος in NT Caitanya and his six Gosvami disciples give us ample opportunity and scope for this work. Lord Caitanya first inaugurated the sankirtana or randhun movement and the later Gosvamis supported it by scholarly philosophical synthesis. The six sandarbhas by Srila Jiva Goswami are marvelous in this respect. 2. The second item is to take up the templeTemple Latin templum (Tem > "to cut", set apart) Greek temenos (ναός - innermost chamber), Old French temple "side of the forehead" > night temper > Template. Church building (εκκλησιαστικό κτίριο) is not a Temple (ναός) rather it is σαλόνι for a communal meal (devoid of ιερότητα και αφιέρωση), again the early Christian community had no intention to build anything like Ναός του Σολομώντα. (मन्दिर is देवगृह), मन्दिर प्रतिष्टा is a good karma mentioned in Agni and Gaduda Purana. Temple of Athena (Ναός της Αθηνάς). Ayodhya Ram Temple. Read: Temple Management, Devottar. entry or temple worship movement. This is, in the real sense, a theistic cultural movement and the facility or opportunity shall be open to every one whatsoever he may be. All the past acaryas accepted everyone who desires to offer his respect to God inspired by transcendental love and devotion. We can support this movement of Gandhiji on the authority of sastrasSastras Apaurusheya शास्त्र: Vedas (Samhita + Brahman + Aranyak + 6 Vedangas), 10 Upanishads (Approved by Shankara and Ramanuja). Paurusheya शास्त्र (Authored by Rishis): Ramayana, Mahabharata, 6 Darshanas, and Manu Samhita. If Rishis contradict the Vedas, Vedas will prevail. Above Vedas, nothing exists. Veda is the source of Dharma. . There are thousands and lakhs of temples all over India but they are not always properly managed. Some of them have become the positive dens for undesirable activities and most of the owners or trustees of such temples do not know how to utilize these sacred buildings. Neither modernized gentlemen have any interest for these neglected theistic institutions. Originally the aim of these temples was to diffuse spiritual culture in every quarter. These temples or theistic institutions should therefore be reorganized as the centre of spiritual culture according to authentic principles as laid down in the scriptures like Bhagavad-gita. 3. The third item is to take up the harijana movement. This movement is, in the real sense, a spiritual initiation movement and this should be organized in such a manner that people all over the world may take interest in it. The harijana is a wordWord Λόγος which shall not be used neglectfully as it is done now but attempt should be made to make everybody a harijana. Harijana means the recognized man of Hari the Personality of Godhead and thus he (the harijana) is as important a man as the knight of the king. So harijana movement should be strengthened more scientifically to turn every person who is now mayajana into a harijana. The mayajana is a word which is applicable to a person who is ordinarily engaged in the service of materialistic pursuits, whereas the harijana is the person whose main business is to attain perfection of humanHuman Ο άνθρωπος (Humanum> Homo sapiens) मानव:. We have failed to consider the minimum need to be a 'human'. For Christians, human beings are sinful creatures, who need some saviour. For Evolution biology a man is still evolving, for what, we don´t know. For Buddhist Nagarjuna, the realisation of having a human body is a mere mental illusion. We are not ready to accept that a human is a computer made of meat. For a slave master, a human person is another animal, his sons and daughters are his personal property. life, as Mahatma Gandhi did, by spiritualistic realization. This movement should therefore be conducted under strict disciplinary methods as prescribed by the mahajana or the harijana of accredited merit. In such a movement we shall have full co-operation of the sadhu community in India. 4. The fourth item is to organize the much-discussed caste systemCaste The caste system was brought to India by the Europeans. In the Vedic system, the Varna-Ashram system was in practice. Untouchability was never in Vedic society. Every person was respected in their domain of profession. Every person was considered divinely originated (Purush Sukta). At the time of Mahabharata equal rights were established (Bhagavad Gita). as a solution of natural division of the human beings all over the world. Nationalistic division of human races is artificial but scientific division of the caste system as envisaged in the Bhagavad-gita is natural. We shall have to pick up brahmanas and others not only from the IndianIndia Hind/ hend >hindia. Bharat Varsha (Jambudvipa used in Mahavamsha) is the name of this land mass. The people of this land are Sanatan Dharmin and they always defeated invaders. Indra (10000 yrs) was the oldest deified King of this land. Manu's jurisprudence enlitened this land. Vedas have been the civilizational literature of this land. Guiding principles of this land are : सत्यं वद । धर्मं चर । स्वाध्यायान्मा प्रमदः । The place also been called Hindusthan in Pesia. The word Hendu is mentioned in Avesta. Read more people but from the peoples of all over the world. The vitiated caste system of present India is never sanctioned by the scriptures. But the caste system is made by God according to quality and work of the subject and it was never designed for the benefit of accidental birthright. Thus whatever is made by God cannot be destroyed by man. Destruction of the caste system as contemplated by some exponents, is therefore out of question. By the modes of nature different persons are imbued with different qualities and the scientific way of division of human society, from the qualitative aspect, by the caste system is quite natural. But the basic principle of such caste system is to serve the plan of Godhead and by doing so the four orders of caste system make a headway by the co-operative method. When such spiritual progress is definitely made, the materialistic progress is automatically effected as a matterMatter Normal matter is made of molecules, which are themselves made of atoms. Inside the atoms, electrons are spinning around the nucleus. The nucleus is made of protons and neutrons. Inside the protons and neutrons, exist indivisible quarks, like the electrons. All matter around us is made of elementary particles. ( building blocks of matter > quarks and leptons). All stable matter in the universe is made from particles that belong to the first-generation. Fundamental forces result from the exchange of force-carrier particles, which belong to a broader group called “bosons”. The strong force is carried by the “gluon”, electromagnetic force is carried by the “photon.” of course. That makes a real classless society. The above four-fold Gandhi movements, if done in an organized, scientific way supported by all the authentic scriptures of all religiosities, will bring in that tranquillity of peacePeace εἰρήνη respite of all harshness and bitterness of the present world, which we have longed for till now. I wish to organize a spiritual society for the above movements and therefore I seek your active help and support for this. The immediate need is to start an organization centre in a suitable place preferably in New Delhi under your direct supervision and to train up a batch of young men for this transcendental service. If possible to conduct a monthly magazine in this respect for propaganda work. If your honor will allow me an interview, I shall be very glad to explain the whole idea personally and let you know how the scheme can be given a practical shape for subsiding the general unrest all over the world. Such an organized movement shall be the panacea of all social maladies. The State is giving help for so many man-made purposes and I pray that a sum of Rs 2000/- per month may be allowed for starting these Gandhian movements in organized form and that on authentic basis I think if your honour as a renowned practical man accepts my humble suggestion, it may be by the will of God, that the whole atmosphere of the present world calamities may be mitigated altogether. My humble self had the privilege of taking this training under the lotus feet of my spiritual master and I am confident to organize this work in a scientific way if I am helped by the state. ¶ Hoping to be excused for intruding upon your valuable timeTime χρόνος. Judicial: Where any expression of it occurs in any Rules, or any judgment, order or direction, and whenever the doing or not doing of anything at a certain time of the day or night or during a certain part of the day or night has an effect in law, that time is, unless it is otherwise specifically stated, held to be standard time as used in a particular country or state. (In Physics, time and Space never exist actually-“quantum entanglement”) यमः , पुं, (यमयति नियमयति जीवानां फलाफलमिति । यम् + अच् । विश्वे च कलयत्येव यः सर्व्वायुश्च सन्ततम् । अतीव दुर्निवार्य्यञ्च तं कालं प्रणमाम्यहम् ॥यमैश्च नियमैश्चैव यः करोत्यात्मसंयमम् । स चादृष्ट्वा तु मां याति परं ब्रह्म सनातनम् ॥ and awaiting your early reply with deep interest. With my best regards, I beg to remain, Yours faithfully, Abhay Charan DeAbhay Charan De Vaisha Caste (1 September 1896 – 14 November 1977) studied at Scottish Church College. In 1918, he married Radharani Datta. After his graduation, he started a pharmaceutical business in Allahabad. He met with Siddhanta Sarasvati (1874–1937) in 1922 at Bagbazar, Kolkata. In 1933, Siddhanta Sarasvati gave him Harinam for chanting. In 1937, before the death of Siddhanta Sarasvati Prabhupad, he received proper mantra Diksha from Bharati Maharaj (Abhya`s Diksha Gurau). In 1959, he took Sannyasa from Keshava Maharaj (his Sannyasa Guru) with a new name, Bhaktivedanta Swami, and under Madhusudan Maharaj, he learnt to read the Sanskrit Gita, the Sanskrit Bhagavad Puran, etc. Then he went to the United States (1965) and founded ISKCON. He styled his name as A.C. Bhaktivedanta 'Prabhupad'. Like this:Like Loading. Related Tags: 1949 CE Abhay Charan De Goudiya Memorial Letters Hon. Sardar Dr. Vallavbhaiji Patel Deputy Prime Minister, Government of IndiaIndia Hind/ hend >hindia. Bharat Varsha (Jambudvipa used in Mahavamsha) is the name of this land mass. The people of this land are Sanatan Dharmin and they always defeated invaders. Indra (10000 yrs) was the oldest deified King of this land. Manu's jurisprudence enlitened this land. Vedas have been the civilizational literature of this land. Guiding principles of this land are : सत्यं वद । धर्मं चर । स्वाध्यायान्मा प्रमदः । The place also been called Hindusthan in Pesia. The word Hendu is mentioned in Avesta. Read more, New DelhiNew Delhi Indraprastha, the capital of Emperor Yudhisthira and Pandavas constructed by Mayasura, where Rajasuya Yagna was performed under the guidance of Krishna Dvaipayana and the protection of Vasudeva Krishna in the present-day Raja Ghat area. Prtvi Rajaj was the last Hindu king of Delhi.. February 28, 1949 Revered Sir, May your honour accept my humble namaskara. Your honour is well known as the iron man of India but I knowKnowledge Knowledge is derived from the process of an informed person integrating data from sense organs or intuition into their psyche. This concept is explored in the Vedic Nasadiya Sukta, which questions the possibility of ultimate truth or knowledge. In different languages, such as Greek, Latin, Sanskrit, and Chinese, knowledge is expressed as "η γνώση," "Scientia," "ज्ञानम्‌ ," and "知识 Zhīshì," respectively. that you the most practical man who can take things as they are. With this idea in view I venture to approach your honour for submitting the following few lines for your consideration and necessary action. FundsFund The term refers to assets of every kind, whether corporeal or incorporeal, tangible or intangible, movable or immovable, however acquired, and legal documents or instruments in any form, including electronic or digital, evidencing title to, or interest in, such assets. are being collected to commemorate Mahatma Gandhiji in a fitting manner and I beg to suggest that the same may be done in the Gandhian way and not otherwise. Gandhiji’s whole life was dedicated to the service of humanityHuman Ο άνθρωπος (Humanum> Homo sapiens) मानव:. We have failed to consider the minimum need to be a 'human'. For Christians, human beings are sinful creatures, who need some saviour. For Evolution biology a man is still evolving, for what, we don´t know. For Buddhist Nagarjuna, the realisation of having a human body is a mere mental illusion. We are not ready to accept that a human is a computer made of meat. For a slave master, a human person is another animal, his sons and daughters are his personal property. at large with special interest for raising the moralMorality Mental frame. It can be high morality or low morality, savage morality or civilised morality or Christian morality, or Nazi morality. Decent Behaviour is acceptable norms of the nations. Christian morality starts with the belief that all men are sinners and that repentance is the cause of divine mercy. Putting Crucified Christ in between is the destruction of Christian morality and logic. Now morality shifted to the personal choice of Jesus. What Jesus did is 'good'. The same would be the case of Ram, Krishna, Muhammad, Buddha, Lenin, etc. Pure Human Consciousness degraded to pure followership. There exists no proof the animals are devoid of morality. standard. His later activities showed that he was equal to everyone and all the peopleMen Ανθρωποι (People), a woman (γυναίκα), Man (Ανδρας) > Adama, Manu > No proof to establish that due to mutation a monkey turned into a human being. of the worldWorld Κόσμος knew him more as a spiritualSpiritual Inspirational or inspired, energetic, motivated. It is all about earthly potency. It can not be translated as Adhatmya in Sanskrit. 'Christian Spirituality' means being motivated by Christian ideas. An airy or thin, like invisible earthly matter, is also called Spiritual. "Take and receive my spirit" means take courage from me, or just blowing wind from one's mouth. leader than a mere politician. Devotion to Godhead was his ultimate aim and when I say that his sacred memoryMemory It is the process of storing and then remembering this information. Forgetting may be a sign of a more serious problem, such as: Alzheimer's disease, Other types of dementia, Stroke, Depression, Head injuries, Blood clots or tumors in the brain, Kidney, liver, or thyroid problems, Reactions to certain medicines, should be perpetuated not in the ordinary way but in the Gandhian way, I mean that fitting respect to his memory will be done in the following manner. 1. In the midst of his multifarious duties, Gandhiji never missed to attend to his Ramdhun kirtana meeting. This is one of the soundest method for the culture of devotion to GodGod People in most cultures believe in the existence of supernatural beings and other supernatural concepts. God is attributed to both anthropomorphic properties (“listens to prayers”) and non-anthropomorphic properties (“knows everything”). Conceptualizing God is associated with willingness to get the COVID-19 vaccine or Vaccine hesitancy. Pope requested people not to practice “Jesus is my vaccine”. For the Jewish, family (Avestan universal) god became national God: I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob,”(ex 3:15). See Ishwar. . In the opinionOpinion A judge's written explanation of a decision of the court. In an appeal, multiple opinions may be written. The court’s ruling comes from a majority of judges and forms the majority opinion. A dissenting opinion disagrees with the majority because of the reasoning and/or the principles of law on which the decision is based. A concurring opinion agrees with the end result of the court but offers further comment possibly because they disagree with how the court reached its conclusion. of Srimad-Bhagavatam, one who is imbibed with the devotion of Godhead is also endowed with all the good qualities of the gods. But one who is not a devotee of Godhead, has not any value for his good qualities because he utilizes his so called good qualities for ulterior purposes. As such the easy way to raise the moral standard of people in general, is to make this sankirtana movement more popular all over the world by philosophical discourses based on reasoning and moral and ethical codes. The Vaisnava acaryas especially LordLord Adoni in Hebrew (אָדוֹן) and dominions in Larin. άρχοντας / κύριος in NT Caitanya and his six Gosvami disciples give us ample opportunity and scope for this work. Lord Caitanya first inaugurated the sankirtana or randhun movement and the later Gosvamis supported it by scholarly philosophical synthesis. The six sandarbhas by Srila Jiva Goswami are marvelous in this respect. 2. The second item is to take up the templeTemple Latin templum (Tem > "to cut", set apart) Greek temenos (ναός - innermost chamber), Old French temple "side of the forehead" > night temper > Template. Church building (εκκλησιαστικό κτίριο) is not a Temple (ναός) rather it is σαλόνι for a communal meal (devoid of ιερότητα και αφιέρωση), again the early Christian community had no intention to build anything like Ναός του Σολομώντα. (मन्दिर is देवगृह), मन्दिर प्रतिष्टा is a good karma mentioned in Agni and Gaduda Purana. Temple of Athena (Ναός της Αθηνάς). Ayodhya Ram Temple. Read: Temple Management, Devottar. entry or temple worship movement. This is, in the real sense, a theistic cultural movement and the facility or opportunity shall be open to every one whatsoever he may be. All the past acaryas accepted everyone who desires to offer his respect to God inspired by transcendental love and devotion. We can support this movement of Gandhiji on the authority of sastrasSastras Apaurusheya शास्त्र: Vedas (Samhita + Brahman + Aranyak + 6 Vedangas), 10 Upanishads (Approved by Shankara and Ramanuja). Paurusheya शास्त्र (Authored by Rishis): Ramayana, Mahabharata, 6 Darshanas, and Manu Samhita. If Rishis contradict the Vedas, Vedas will prevail. Above Vedas, nothing exists. Veda is the source of Dharma. . There are thousands and lakhs of temples all over India but they are not always properly managed. Some of them have become the positive dens for undesirable activities and most of the owners or trustees of such temples do not know how to utilize these sacred buildings. Neither modernized gentlemen have any interest for these neglected theistic institutions. Originally the aim of these temples was to diffuse spiritual culture in every quarter. These temples or theistic institutions should therefore be reorganized as the centre of spiritual culture according to authentic principles as laid down in the scriptures like Bhagavad-gita. 3. The third item is to take up the harijana movement. This movement is, in the real sense, a spiritual initiation movement and this should be organized in such a manner that people all over the world may take interest in it. The harijana is a wordWord Λόγος which shall not be used neglectfully as it is done now but attempt should be made to make everybody a harijana. Harijana means the recognized man of Hari the Personality of Godhead and thus he (the harijana) is as important a man as the knight of the king. So harijana movement should be strengthened more scientifically to turn every person who is now mayajana into a harijana. The mayajana is a word which is applicable to a person who is ordinarily engaged in the service of materialistic pursuits, whereas the harijana is the person whose main business is to attain perfection of humanHuman Ο άνθρωπος (Humanum> Homo sapiens) मानव:. We have failed to consider the minimum need to be a 'human'. For Christians, human beings are sinful creatures, who need some saviour. For Evolution biology a man is still evolving, for what, we don´t know. For Buddhist Nagarjuna, the realisation of having a human body is a mere mental illusion. We are not ready to accept that a human is a computer made of meat. For a slave master, a human person is another animal, his sons and daughters are his personal property. life, as Mahatma Gandhi did, by spiritualistic realization. This movement should therefore be conducted under strict disciplinary methods as prescribed by the mahajana or the harijana of accredited merit. In such a movement we shall have full co-operation of the sadhu community in India. 4. The fourth item is to organize the much-discussed caste systemCaste The caste system was brought to India by the Europeans. In the Vedic system, the Varna-Ashram system was in practice. Untouchability was never in Vedic society. Every person was respected in their domain of profession. Every person was considered divinely originated (Purush Sukta). At the time of Mahabharata equal rights were established (Bhagavad Gita). as a solution of natural division of the human beings all over the world. Nationalistic division of human races is artificial but scientific division of the caste system as envisaged in the Bhagavad-gita is natural. We shall have to pick up brahmanas and others not only from the IndianIndia Hind/ hend >hindia. Bharat Varsha (Jambudvipa used in Mahavamsha) is the name of this land mass. The people of this land are Sanatan Dharmin and they always defeated invaders. Indra (10000 yrs) was the oldest deified King of this land. Manu's jurisprudence enlitened this land. Vedas have been the civilizational literature of this land. Guiding principles of this land are : सत्यं वद । धर्मं चर । स्वाध्यायान्मा प्रमदः । The place also been called Hindusthan in Pesia. The word Hendu is mentioned in Avesta. Read more people but from the peoples of all over the world. The vitiated caste system of present India is never sanctioned by the scriptures. But the caste system is made by God according to quality and work of the subject and it was never designed for the benefit of accidental birthright. Thus whatever is made by God cannot be destroyed by man. Destruction of the caste system as contemplated by some exponents, is therefore out of question. By the modes of nature different persons are imbued with different qualities and the scientific way of division of human society, from the qualitative aspect, by the caste system is quite natural. But the basic principle of such caste system is to serve the plan of Godhead and by doing so the four orders of caste system make a headway by the co-operative method. When such spiritual progress is definitely made, the materialistic progress is automatically effected as a matterMatter Normal matter is made of molecules, which are themselves made of atoms. Inside the atoms, electrons are spinning around the nucleus. The nucleus is made of protons and neutrons. Inside the protons and neutrons, exist indivisible quarks, like the electrons. All matter around us is made of elementary particles. ( building blocks of matter > quarks and leptons). All stable matter in the universe is made from particles that belong to the first-generation. Fundamental forces result from the exchange of force-carrier particles, which belong to a broader group called “bosons”. The strong force is carried by the “gluon”, electromagnetic force is carried by the “photon.” of course. That makes a real classless society. The above four-fold Gandhi movements, if done in an organized, scientific way supported by all the authentic scriptures of all religiosities, will bring in that tranquillity of peacePeace εἰρήνη respite of all harshness and bitterness of the present world, which we have longed for till now. I wish to organize a spiritual society for the above movements and therefore I seek your active help and support for this. The immediate need is to start an organization centre in a suitable place preferably in New Delhi under your direct supervision and to train up a batch of young men for this transcendental service. If possible to conduct a monthly magazine in this respect for propaganda work. If your honor will allow me an interview, I shall be very glad to explain the whole idea personally and let you know how the scheme can be given a practical shape for subsiding the general unrest all over the world. Such an organized movement shall be the panacea of all social maladies. The State is giving help for so many man-made purposes and I pray that a sum of Rs 2000/- per month may be allowed for starting these Gandhian movements in organized form and that on authentic basis I think if your honour as a renowned practical man accepts my humble suggestion, it may be by the will of God, that the whole atmosphere of the present world calamities may be mitigated altogether. My humble self had the privilege of taking this training under the lotus feet of my spiritual master and I am confident to organize this work in a scientific way if I am helped by the state. ¶ Hoping to be excused for intruding upon your valuable timeTime χρόνος. Judicial: Where any expression of it occurs in any Rules, or any judgment, order or direction, and whenever the doing or not doing of anything at a certain time of the day or night or during a certain part of the day or night has an effect in law, that time is, unless it is otherwise specifically stated, held to be standard time as used in a particular country or state. (In Physics, time and Space never exist actually-“quantum entanglement”) यमः , पुं, (यमयति नियमयति जीवानां फलाफलमिति । यम् + अच् । विश्वे च कलयत्येव यः सर्व्वायुश्च सन्ततम् । अतीव दुर्निवार्य्यञ्च तं कालं प्रणमाम्यहम् ॥यमैश्च नियमैश्चैव यः करोत्यात्मसंयमम् । स चादृष्ट्वा तु मां याति परं ब्रह्म सनातनम् ॥ and awaiting your early reply with deep interest. With my best regards, I beg to remain, Yours faithfully, Abhay Charan DeAbhay Charan De Vaisha Caste (1 September 1896 – 14 November 1977) studied at Scottish Church College. In 1918, he married Radharani Datta. After his graduation, he started a pharmaceutical business in Allahabad. He met with Siddhanta Sarasvati (1874–1937) in 1922 at Bagbazar, Kolkata. In 1933, Siddhanta Sarasvati gave him Harinam for chanting. In 1937, before the death of Siddhanta Sarasvati Prabhupad, he received proper mantra Diksha from Bharati Maharaj (Abhya`s Diksha Gurau). In 1959, he took Sannyasa from Keshava Maharaj (his Sannyasa Guru) with a new name, Bhaktivedanta Swami, and under Madhusudan Maharaj, he learnt to read the Sanskrit Gita, the Sanskrit Bhagavad Puran, etc. Then he went to the United States (1965) and founded ISKCON. He styled his name as A.C. Bhaktivedanta 'Prabhupad'. Like this:Like Loading. Related Tags: 1949 CE Abhay Charan De Goudiya Memorial Letters Hon. Sardar Dr. Vallavbhaiji Patel Deputy Prime Minister, Government of IndiaIndia Hind/ hend >hindia. Bharat Varsha (Jambudvipa used in Mahavamsha) is the name of this land mass. The people of this land are Sanatan Dharmin and they always defeated invaders. Indra (10000 yrs) was the oldest deified King of this land. Manu's jurisprudence enlitened this land. Vedas have been the civilizational literature of this land. Guiding principles of this land are : सत्यं वद । धर्मं चर । स्वाध्यायान्मा प्रमदः । The place also been called Hindusthan in Pesia. The word Hendu is mentioned in Avesta. Read more, New DelhiNew Delhi Indraprastha, the capital of Emperor Yudhisthira and Pandavas constructed by Mayasura, where Rajasuya Yagna was performed under the guidance of Krishna Dvaipayana and the protection of Vasudeva Krishna in the present-day Raja Ghat area. Prtvi Rajaj was the last Hindu king of Delhi.. February 28, 1949 Revered Sir, May your honour accept my humble namaskara. Your honour is well known as the iron man of India but I knowKnowledge Knowledge is derived from the process of an informed person integrating data from sense organs or intuition into their psyche. This concept is explored in the Vedic Nasadiya Sukta, which questions the possibility of ultimate truth or knowledge. In different languages, such as Greek, Latin, Sanskrit, and Chinese, knowledge is expressed as "η γνώση," "Scientia," "ज्ञानम्‌ ," and "知识 Zhīshì," respectively. that you the most practical man who can take things as they are. With this idea in view I venture to approach your honour for submitting the following few lines for your consideration and necessary action. FundsFund The term refers to assets of every kind, whether corporeal or incorporeal, tangible or intangible, movable or immovable, however acquired, and legal documents or instruments in any form, including electronic or digital, evidencing title to, or interest in, such assets. are being collected to commemorate Mahatma Gandhiji in a fitting manner and I beg to suggest that the same may be done in the Gandhian way and not otherwise. Gandhiji’s whole life was dedicated to the service of humanityHuman Ο άνθρωπος (Humanum> Homo sapiens) मानव:. We have failed to consider the minimum need to be a 'human'. For Christians, human beings are sinful creatures, who need some saviour. For Evolution biology a man is still evolving, for what, we don´t know. For Buddhist Nagarjuna, the realisation of having a human body is a mere mental illusion. We are not ready to accept that a human is a computer made of meat. For a slave master, a human person is another animal, his sons and daughters are his personal property. at large with special interest for raising the moralMorality Mental frame. It can be high morality or low morality, savage morality or civilised morality or Christian morality, or Nazi morality. Decent Behaviour is acceptable norms of the nations. Christian morality starts with the belief that all men are sinners and that repentance is the cause of divine mercy. Putting Crucified Christ in between is the destruction of Christian morality and logic. Now morality shifted to the personal choice of Jesus. What Jesus did is 'good'. The same would be the case of Ram, Krishna, Muhammad, Buddha, Lenin, etc. Pure Human Consciousness degraded to pure followership. There exists no proof the animals are devoid of morality. standard. His later activities showed that he was equal to everyone and all the peopleMen Ανθρωποι (People), a woman (γυναίκα), Man (Ανδρας) > Adama, Manu > No proof to establish that due to mutation a monkey turned into a human being. of the worldWorld Κόσμος knew him more as a spiritualSpiritual Inspirational or inspired, energetic, motivated. It is all about earthly potency. It can not be translated as Adhatmya in Sanskrit. 'Christian Spirituality' means being motivated by Christian ideas. An airy or thin, like invisible earthly matter, is also called Spiritual. "Take and receive my spirit" means take courage from me, or just blowing wind from one's mouth. leader than a mere politician. Devotion to Godhead was his ultimate aim and when I say that his sacred memoryMemory It is the process of storing and then remembering this information. Forgetting may be a sign of a more serious problem, such as: Alzheimer's disease, Other types of dementia, Stroke, Depression, Head injuries, Blood clots or tumors in the brain, Kidney, liver, or thyroid problems, Reactions to certain medicines, should be perpetuated not in the ordinary way but in the Gandhian way, I mean that fitting respect to his memory will be done in the following manner. 1. In the midst of his multifarious duties, Gandhiji never missed to attend to his Ramdhun kirtana meeting. This is one of the soundest method for the culture of devotion to GodGod People in most cultures believe in the existence of supernatural beings and other supernatural concepts. God is attributed to both anthropomorphic properties (“listens to prayers”) and non-anthropomorphic properties (“knows everything”). Conceptualizing God is associated with willingness to get the COVID-19 vaccine or Vaccine hesitancy. Pope requested people not to practice “Jesus is my vaccine”. For the Jewish, family (Avestan universal) god became national God: I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob,”(ex 3:15). See Ishwar. . In the opinionOpinion A judge's written explanation of a decision of the court. In an appeal, multiple opinions may be written. The court’s ruling comes from a majority of judges and forms the majority opinion. A dissenting opinion disagrees with the majority because of the reasoning and/or the principles of law on which the decision is based. A concurring opinion agrees with the end result of the court but offers further comment possibly because they disagree with how the court reached its conclusion. of Srimad-Bhagavatam, one who is imbibed with the devotion of Godhead is also endowed with all the good qualities of the gods. But one who is not a devotee of Godhead, has not any value for his good qualities because he utilizes his so called good qualities for ulterior purposes. As such the easy way to raise the moral standard of people in general, is to make this sankirtana movement more popular all over the world by philosophical discourses based on reasoning and moral and ethical codes. The Vaisnava acaryas especially LordLord Adoni in Hebrew (אָדוֹן) and dominions in Larin. άρχοντας / κύριος in NT Caitanya and his six Gosvami disciples give us ample opportunity and scope for this work. Lord Caitanya first inaugurated the sankirtana or randhun movement and the later Gosvamis supported it by scholarly philosophical synthesis. The six sandarbhas by Srila Jiva Goswami are marvelous in this respect. 2. The second item is to take up the templeTemple Latin templum (Tem > "to cut", set apart) Greek temenos (ναός - innermost chamber), Old French temple "side of the forehead" > night temper > Template. Church building (εκκλησιαστικό κτίριο) is not a Temple (ναός) rather it is σαλόνι for a communal meal (devoid of ιερότητα και αφιέρωση), again the early Christian community had no intention to build anything like Ναός του Σολομώντα. (मन्दिर is देवगृह), मन्दिर प्रतिष्टा is a good karma mentioned in Agni and Gaduda Purana. Temple of Athena (Ναός της Αθηνάς). Ayodhya Ram Temple. Read: Temple Management, Devottar. entry or temple worship movement. This is, in the real sense, a theistic cultural movement and the facility or opportunity shall be open to every one whatsoever he may be. All the past acaryas accepted everyone who desires to offer his respect to God inspired by transcendental love and devotion. We can support this movement of Gandhiji on the authority of sastrasSastras Apaurusheya शास्त्र: Vedas (Samhita + Brahman + Aranyak + 6 Vedangas), 10 Upanishads (Approved by Shankara and Ramanuja). Paurusheya शास्त्र (Authored by Rishis): Ramayana, Mahabharata, 6 Darshanas, and Manu Samhita. If Rishis contradict the Vedas, Vedas will prevail. Above Vedas, nothing exists. Veda is the source of Dharma. . There are thousands and lakhs of temples all over India but they are not always properly managed. Some of them have become the positive dens for undesirable activities and most of the owners or trustees of such temples do not know how to utilize these sacred buildings. Neither modernized gentlemen have any interest for these neglected theistic institutions. Originally the aim of these temples was to diffuse spiritual culture in every quarter. These temples or theistic institutions should therefore be reorganized as the centre of spiritual culture according to authentic principles as laid down in the scriptures like Bhagavad-gita. 3. The third item is to take up the harijana movement. This movement is, in the real sense, a spiritual initiation movement and this should be organized in such a manner that people all over the world may take interest in it. The harijana is a wordWord Λόγος which shall not be used neglectfully as it is done now but attempt should be made to make everybody a harijana. Harijana means the recognized man of Hari the Personality of Godhead and thus he (the harijana) is as important a man as the knight of the king. So harijana movement should be strengthened more scientifically to turn every person who is now mayajana into a harijana. The mayajana is a word which is applicable to a person who is ordinarily engaged in the service of materialistic pursuits, whereas the harijana is the person whose main business is to attain perfection of humanHuman Ο άνθρωπος (Humanum> Homo sapiens) मानव:. We have failed to consider the minimum need to be a 'human'. For Christians, human beings are sinful creatures, who need some saviour. For Evolution biology a man is still evolving, for what, we don´t know. For Buddhist Nagarjuna, the realisation of having a human body is a mere mental illusion. We are not ready to accept that a human is a computer made of meat. For a slave master, a human person is another animal, his sons and daughters are his personal property. life, as Mahatma Gandhi did, by spiritualistic realization. This movement should therefore be conducted under strict disciplinary methods as prescribed by the mahajana or the harijana of accredited merit. In such a movement we shall have full co-operation of the sadhu community in India. 4. The fourth item is to organize the much-discussed caste systemCaste The caste system was brought to India by the Europeans. In the Vedic system, the Varna-Ashram system was in practice. Untouchability was never in Vedic society. Every person was respected in their domain of profession. Every person was considered divinely originated (Purush Sukta). At the time of Mahabharata equal rights were established (Bhagavad Gita). as a solution of natural division of the human beings all over the world. Nationalistic division of human races is artificial but scientific division of the caste system as envisaged in the Bhagavad-gita is natural. We shall have to pick up brahmanas and others not only from the IndianIndia Hind/ hend >hindia. Bharat Varsha (Jambudvipa used in Mahavamsha) is the name of this land mass. The people of this land are Sanatan Dharmin and they always defeated invaders. Indra (10000 yrs) was the oldest deified King of this land. Manu's jurisprudence enlitened this land. Vedas have been the civilizational literature of this land. Guiding principles of this land are : सत्यं वद । धर्मं चर । स्वाध्यायान्मा प्रमदः । The place also been called Hindusthan in Pesia. The word Hendu is mentioned in Avesta. Read more people but from the peoples of all over the world. The vitiated caste system of present India is never sanctioned by the scriptures. But the caste system is made by God according to quality and work of the subject and it was never designed for the benefit of accidental birthright. Thus whatever is made by God cannot be destroyed by man. Destruction of the caste system as contemplated by some exponents, is therefore out of question. By the modes of nature different persons are imbued with different qualities and the scientific way of division of human society, from the qualitative aspect, by the caste system is quite natural. But the basic principle of such caste system is to serve the plan of Godhead and by doing so the four orders of caste system make a headway by the co-operative method. When such spiritual progress is definitely made, the materialistic progress is automatically effected as a matterMatter Normal matter is made of molecules, which are themselves made of atoms. Inside the atoms, electrons are spinning around the nucleus. The nucleus is made of protons and neutrons. Inside the protons and neutrons, exist indivisible quarks, like the electrons. All matter around us is made of elementary particles. ( building blocks of matter > quarks and leptons). All stable matter in the universe is made from particles that belong to the first-generation. Fundamental forces result from the exchange of force-carrier particles, which belong to a broader group called “bosons”. The strong force is carried by the “gluon”, electromagnetic force is carried by the “photon.” of course. That makes a real classless society. The above four-fold Gandhi movements, if done in an organized, scientific way supported by all the authentic scriptures of all religiosities, will bring in that tranquillity of peacePeace εἰρήνη respite of all harshness and bitterness of the present world, which we have longed for till now. I wish to organize a spiritual society for the above movements and therefore I seek your active help and support for this. The immediate need is to start an organization centre in a suitable place preferably in New Delhi under your direct supervision and to train up a batch of young men for this transcendental service. If possible to conduct a monthly magazine in this respect for propaganda work. If your honor will allow me an interview, I shall be very glad to explain the whole idea personally and let you know how the scheme can be given a practical shape for subsiding the general unrest all over the world. Such an organized movement shall be the panacea of all social maladies. The State is giving help for so many man-made purposes and I pray that a sum of Rs 2000/- per month may be allowed for starting these Gandhian movements in organized form and that on authentic basis I think if your honour as a renowned practical man accepts my humble suggestion, it may be by the will of God, that the whole atmosphere of the present world calamities may be mitigated altogether. My humble self had the privilege of taking this training under the lotus feet of my spiritual master and I am confident to organize this work in a scientific way if I am helped by the state. ¶ Hoping to be excused for intruding upon your valuable timeTime χρόνος. Judicial: Where any expression of it occurs in any Rules, or any judgment, order or direction, and whenever the doing or not doing of anything at a certain time of the day or night or during a certain part of the day or night has an effect in law, that time is, unless it is otherwise specifically stated, held to be standard time as used in a particular country or state. (In Physics, time and Space never exist actually-“quantum entanglement”) यमः , पुं, (यमयति नियमयति जीवानां फलाफलमिति । यम् + अच् । विश्वे च कलयत्येव यः सर्व्वायुश्च सन्ततम् । अतीव दुर्निवार्य्यञ्च तं कालं प्रणमाम्यहम् ॥यमैश्च नियमैश्चैव यः करोत्यात्मसंयमम् । स चादृष्ट्वा तु मां याति परं ब्रह्म सनातनम् ॥ and awaiting your early reply with deep interest. With my best regards, I beg to remain, Yours faithfully, Abhay Charan DeAbhay Charan De Vaisha Caste (1 September 1896 – 14 November 1977) studied at Scottish Church College. In 1918, he married Radharani Datta. After his graduation, he started a pharmaceutical business in Allahabad. He met with Siddhanta Sarasvati (1874–1937) in 1922 at Bagbazar, Kolkata. In 1933, Siddhanta Sarasvati gave him Harinam for chanting. In 1937, before the death of Siddhanta Sarasvati Prabhupad, he received proper mantra Diksha from Bharati Maharaj (Abhya`s Diksha Gurau). In 1959, he took Sannyasa from Keshava Maharaj (his Sannyasa Guru) with a new name, Bhaktivedanta Swami, and under Madhusudan Maharaj, he learnt to read the Sanskrit Gita, the Sanskrit Bhagavad Puran, etc. Then he went to the United States (1965) and founded ISKCON. He styled his name as A.C. Bhaktivedanta 'Prabhupad'. Like this:Like Loading. Related Tags: 1949 CE Abhay Charan De Goudiya Memorial Letters Hon. Sardar Dr. Vallavbhaiji Patel Deputy Prime Minister, Government of IndiaIndia Hind/ hend >hindia. Bharat Varsha (Jambudvipa used in Mahavamsha) is the name of this land mass. The people of this land are Sanatan Dharmin and they always defeated invaders. Indra (10000 yrs) was the oldest deified King of this land. Manu's jurisprudence enlitened this land. Vedas have been the civilizational literature of this land. Guiding principles of this land are : सत्यं वद । धर्मं चर । स्वाध्यायान्मा प्रमदः । The place also been called Hindusthan in Pesia. The word Hendu is mentioned in Avesta. Read more, New DelhiNew Delhi Indraprastha, the capital of Emperor Yudhisthira and Pandavas constructed by Mayasura, where Rajasuya Yagna was performed under the guidance of Krishna Dvaipayana and the protection of Vasudeva Krishna in the present-day Raja Ghat area. Prtvi Rajaj was the last Hindu king of Delhi.. February 28, 1949 Revered Sir, May your honour accept my humble namaskara. Your honour is well known as the iron man of India but I knowKnowledge Knowledge is derived from the process of an informed person integrating data from sense organs or intuition into their psyche. This concept is explored in the Vedic Nasadiya Sukta, which questions the possibility of ultimate truth or knowledge. In different languages, such as Greek, Latin, Sanskrit, and Chinese, knowledge is expressed as "η γνώση," "Scientia," "ज्ञानम्‌ ," and "知识 Zhīshì," respectively. that you the most practical man who can take things as they are. With this idea in view I venture to approach your honour for submitting the following few lines for your consideration and necessary action. FundsFund The term refers to assets of every kind, whether corporeal or incorporeal, tangible or intangible, movable or immovable, however acquired, and legal documents or instruments in any form, including electronic or digital, evidencing title to, or interest in, such assets. are being collected to commemorate Mahatma Gandhiji in a fitting manner and I beg to suggest that the same may be done in the Gandhian way and not otherwise. Gandhiji’s whole life was dedicated to the service of humanityHuman Ο άνθρωπος (Humanum> Homo sapiens) मानव:. We have failed to consider the minimum need to be a 'human'. For Christians, human beings are sinful creatures, who need some saviour. For Evolution biology a man is still evolving, for what, we don´t know. For Buddhist Nagarjuna, the realisation of having a human body is a mere mental illusion. We are not ready to accept that a human is a computer made of meat. For a slave master, a human person is another animal, his sons and daughters are his personal property. at large with special interest for raising the moralMorality Mental frame. It can be high morality or low morality, savage morality or civilised morality or Christian morality, or Nazi morality. Decent Behaviour is acceptable norms of the nations. Christian morality starts with the belief that all men are sinners and that repentance is the cause of divine mercy. Putting Crucified Christ in between is the destruction of Christian morality and logic. Now morality shifted to the personal choice of Jesus. What Jesus did is 'good'. The same would be the case of Ram, Krishna, Muhammad, Buddha, Lenin, etc. Pure Human Consciousness degraded to pure followership. There exists no proof the animals are devoid of morality. standard. His later activities showed that he was equal to everyone and all the peopleMen Ανθρωποι (People), a woman (γυναίκα), Man (Ανδρας) > Adama, Manu > No proof to establish that due to mutation a monkey turned into a human being. of the worldWorld Κόσμος knew him more as a spiritualSpiritual Inspirational or inspired, energetic, motivated. It is all about earthly potency. It can not be translated as Adhatmya in Sanskrit. 'Christian Spirituality' means being motivated by Christian ideas. An airy or thin, like invisible earthly matter, is also called Spiritual. "Take and receive my spirit" means take courage from me, or just blowing wind from one's mouth. leader than a mere politician. Devotion to Godhead was his ultimate aim and when I say that his sacred memoryMemory It is the process of storing and then remembering this information. Forgetting may be a sign of a more serious problem, such as: Alzheimer's disease, Other types of dementia, Stroke, Depression, Head injuries, Blood clots or tumors in the brain, Kidney, liver, or thyroid problems, Reactions to certain medicines, should be perpetuated not in the ordinary way but in the Gandhian way, I mean that fitting respect to his memory will be done in the following manner. 1. In the midst of his multifarious duties, Gandhiji never missed to attend to his Ramdhun kirtana meeting. This is one of the soundest method for the culture of devotion to GodGod People in most cultures believe in the existence of supernatural beings and other supernatural concepts. God is attributed to both anthropomorphic properties (“listens to prayers”) and non-anthropomorphic properties (“knows everything”). Conceptualizing God is associated with willingness to get the COVID-19 vaccine or Vaccine hesitancy. Pope requested people not to practice “Jesus is my vaccine”. For the Jewish, family (Avestan universal) god became national God: I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob,”(ex 3:15). See Ishwar. . In the opinionOpinion A judge's written explanation of a decision of the court. In an appeal, multiple opinions may be written. The court’s ruling comes from a majority of judges and forms the majority opinion. A dissenting opinion disagrees with the majority because of the reasoning and/or the principles of law on which the decision is based. A concurring opinion agrees with the end result of the court but offers further comment possibly because they disagree with how the court reached its conclusion. of Srimad-Bhagavatam, one who is imbibed with the devotion of Godhead is also endowed with all the good qualities of the gods. But one who is not a devotee of Godhead, has not any value for his good qualities because he utilizes his so called good qualities for ulterior purposes. As such the easy way to raise the moral standard of people in general, is to make this sankirtana movement more popular all over the world by philosophical discourses based on reasoning and moral and ethical codes. The Vaisnava acaryas especially LordLord Adoni in Hebrew (אָדוֹן) and dominions in Larin. άρχοντας / κύριος in NT Caitanya and his six Gosvami disciples give us ample opportunity and scope for this work. Lord Caitanya first inaugurated the sankirtana or randhun movement and the later Gosvamis supported it by scholarly philosophical synthesis. The six sandarbhas by Srila Jiva Goswami are marvelous in this respect. 2. The second item is to take up the templeTemple Latin templum (Tem > "to cut", set apart) Greek temenos (ναός - innermost chamber), Old French temple "side of the forehead" > night temper > Template. Church building (εκκλησιαστικό κτίριο) is not a Temple (ναός) rather it is σαλόνι for a communal meal (devoid of ιερότητα και αφιέρωση), again the early Christian community had no intention to build anything like Ναός του Σολομώντα. (मन्दिर is देवगृह), मन्दिर प्रतिष्टा is a good karma mentioned in Agni and Gaduda Purana. Temple of Athena (Ναός της Αθηνάς). Ayodhya Ram Temple. Read: Temple Management, Devottar. entry or temple worship movement. This is, in the real sense, a theistic cultural movement and the facility or opportunity shall be open to every one whatsoever he may be. All the past acaryas accepted everyone who desires to offer his respect to God inspired by transcendental love and devotion. We can support this movement of Gandhiji on the authority of sastrasSastras Apaurusheya शास्त्र: Vedas (Samhita + Brahman + Aranyak + 6 Vedangas), 10 Upanishads (Approved by Shankara and Ramanuja). Paurusheya शास्त्र (Authored by Rishis): Ramayana, Mahabharata, 6 Darshanas, and Manu Samhita. If Rishis contradict the Vedas, Vedas will prevail. Above Vedas, nothing exists. Veda is the source of Dharma. . There are thousands and lakhs of temples all over India but they are not always properly managed. Some of them have become the positive dens for undesirable activities and most of the owners or trustees of such temples do not know how to utilize these sacred buildings. Neither modernized gentlemen have any interest for these neglected theistic institutions. Originally the aim of these temples was to diffuse spiritual culture in every quarter. These temples or theistic institutions should therefore be reorganized as the centre of spiritual culture according to authentic principles as laid down in the scriptures like Bhagavad-gita. 3. The third item is to take up the harijana movement. This movement is, in the real sense, a spiritual initiation movement and this should be organized in such a manner that people all over the world may take interest in it. The harijana is a wordWord Λόγος which shall not be used neglectfully as it is done now but attempt should be made to make everybody a harijana. Harijana means the recognized man of Hari the Personality of Godhead and thus he (the harijana) is as important a man as the knight of the king. So harijana movement should be strengthened more scientifically to turn every person who is now mayajana into a harijana. The mayajana is a word which is applicable to a person who is ordinarily engaged in the service of materialistic pursuits, whereas the harijana is the person whose main business is to attain perfection of humanHuman Ο άνθρωπος (Humanum> Homo sapiens) मानव:. We have failed to consider the minimum need to be a 'human'. For Christians, human beings are sinful creatures, who need some saviour. For Evolution biology a man is still evolving, for what, we don´t know. For Buddhist Nagarjuna, the realisation of having a human body is a mere mental illusion. We are not ready to accept that a human is a computer made of meat. For a slave master, a human person is another animal, his sons and daughters are his personal property. life, as Mahatma Gandhi did, by spiritualistic realization. This movement should therefore be conducted under strict disciplinary methods as prescribed by the mahajana or the harijana of accredited merit. In such a movement we shall have full co-operation of the sadhu community in India. 4. The fourth item is to organize the much-discussed caste systemCaste The caste system was brought to India by the Europeans. In the Vedic system, the Varna-Ashram system was in practice. Untouchability was never in Vedic society. Every person was respected in their domain of profession. Every person was considered divinely originated (Purush Sukta). At the time of Mahabharata equal rights were established (Bhagavad Gita). as a solution of natural division of the human beings all over the world. Nationalistic division of human races is artificial but scientific division of the caste system as envisaged in the Bhagavad-gita is natural. We shall have to pick up brahmanas and others not only from the IndianIndia Hind/ hend >hindia. Bharat Varsha (Jambudvipa used in Mahavamsha) is the name of this land mass. The people of this land are Sanatan Dharmin and they always defeated invaders. Indra (10000 yrs) was the oldest deified King of this land. Manu's jurisprudence enlitened this land. Vedas have been the civilizational literature of this land. Guiding principles of this land are : सत्यं वद । धर्मं चर । स्वाध्यायान्मा प्रमदः । The place also been called Hindusthan in Pesia. The word Hendu is mentioned in Avesta. Read more people but from the peoples of all over the world. The vitiated caste system of present India is never sanctioned by the scriptures. But the caste system is made by God according to quality and work of the subject and it was never designed for the benefit of accidental birthright. Thus whatever is made by God cannot be destroyed by man. Destruction of the caste system as contemplated by some exponents, is therefore out of question. By the modes of nature different persons are imbued with different qualities and the scientific way of division of human society, from the qualitative aspect, by the caste system is quite natural. But the basic principle of such caste system is to serve the plan of Godhead and by doing so the four orders of caste system make a headway by the co-operative method. When such spiritual progress is definitely made, the materialistic progress is automatically effected as a matterMatter Normal matter is made of molecules, which are themselves made of atoms. Inside the atoms, electrons are spinning around the nucleus. The nucleus is made of protons and neutrons. Inside the protons and neutrons, exist indivisible quarks, like the electrons. All matter around us is made of elementary particles. ( building blocks of matter > quarks and leptons). All stable matter in the universe is made from particles that belong to the first-generation. Fundamental forces result from the exchange of force-carrier particles, which belong to a broader group called “bosons”. The strong force is carried by the “gluon”, electromagnetic force is carried by the “photon.” of course. That makes a real classless society. The above four-fold Gandhi movements, if done in an organized, scientific way supported by all the authentic scriptures of all religiosities, will bring in that tranquillity of peacePeace εἰρήνη respite of all harshness and bitterness of the present world, which we have longed for till now. I wish to organize a spiritual society for the above movements and therefore I seek your active help and support for this. The immediate need is to start an organization centre in a suitable place preferably in New Delhi under your direct supervision and to train up a batch of young men for this transcendental service. If possible to conduct a monthly magazine in this respect for propaganda work. If your honor will allow me an interview, I shall be very glad to explain the whole idea personally and let you know how the scheme can be given a practical shape for subsiding the general unrest all over the world. Such an organized movement shall be the panacea of all social maladies. The State is giving help for so many man-made purposes and I pray that a sum of Rs 2000/- per month may be allowed for starting these Gandhian movements in organized form and that on authentic basis I think if your honour as a renowned practical man accepts my humble suggestion, it may be by the will of God, that the whole atmosphere of the present world calamities may be mitigated altogether. My humble self had the privilege of taking this training under the lotus feet of my spiritual master and I am confident to organize this work in a scientific way if I am helped by the state. ¶ Hoping to be excused for intruding upon your valuable timeTime χρόνος. Judicial: Where any expression of it occurs in any Rules, or any judgment, order or direction, and whenever the doing or not doing of anything at a certain time of the day or night or during a certain part of the day or night has an effect in law, that time is, unless it is otherwise specifically stated, held to be standard time as used in a particular country or state. (In Physics, time and Space never exist actually-“quantum entanglement”) यमः , पुं, (यमयति नियमयति जीवानां फलाफलमिति । यम् + अच् । विश्वे च कलयत्येव यः सर्व्वायुश्च सन्ततम् । अतीव दुर्निवार्य्यञ्च तं कालं प्रणमाम्यहम् ॥यमैश्च नियमैश्चैव यः करोत्यात्मसंयमम् । स चादृष्ट्वा तु मां याति परं ब्रह्म सनातनम् ॥ and awaiting your early reply with deep interest. With my best regards, I beg to remain, Yours faithfully, Abhay Charan DeAbhay Charan De Vaisha Caste (1 September 1896 – 14 November 1977) studied at Scottish Church College. In 1918, he married Radharani Datta. After his graduation, he started a pharmaceutical business in Allahabad. He met with Siddhanta Sarasvati (1874–1937) in 1922 at Bagbazar, Kolkata. In 1933, Siddhanta Sarasvati gave him Harinam for chanting. In 1937, before the death of Siddhanta Sarasvati Prabhupad, he received proper mantra Diksha from Bharati Maharaj (Abhya`s Diksha Gurau). In 1959, he took Sannyasa from Keshava Maharaj (his Sannyasa Guru) with a new name, Bhaktivedanta Swami, and under Madhusudan Maharaj, he learnt to read the Sanskrit Gita, the Sanskrit Bhagavad Puran, etc. Then he went to the United States (1965) and founded ISKCON. He styled his name as A.C. Bhaktivedanta 'Prabhupad'. Like this:Like Loading. Like Loading. Tags: 1949 CE Abhay Charan De Goudiya Memorial Letters Related Stories UN Adopts New York Declaration on Israel-Palestine Two-State advtanmoy 15/09/2025 A destabilized Nepal is a strategic catastrophe for India advtanmoy 09/09/2025 Modi’s address on the occasion of 79th Independence Day advtanmoy 15/08/2025 Related Stories UN Adopts New York Declaration on Israel-Palestine Two-State advtanmoy 15/09/2025 A destabilized Nepal is a strategic catastrophe for India advtanmoy 09/09/2025 Modi’s address on the occasion of 79th Independence Day advtanmoy 15/08/2025 Related Stories Related Stories UN Adopts New York Declaration on Israel-Palestine Two-State advtanmoy 15/09/2025 A destabilized Nepal is a strategic catastrophe for India advtanmoy 09/09/2025 Modi’s address on the occasion of 79th Independence Day advtanmoy 15/08/2025 UN Adopts New York Declaration on Israel-Palestine Two-State advtanmoy 15/09/2025 UN Adopts New York Declaration on Israel-Palestine Two-State advtanmoy 15/09/2025 UN Adopts New York Declaration on Israel-Palestine Two-State advtanmoy 15/09/2025 UN Adopts New York Declaration on Israel-Palestine Two-State UN Adopts New York Declaration on Israel-Palestine Two-State advtanmoy 15/09/2025 A destabilized Nepal is a strategic catastrophe for India advtanmoy 09/09/2025 A destabilized Nepal is a strategic catastrophe for India advtanmoy 09/09/2025 A destabilized Nepal is a strategic catastrophe for India advtanmoy 09/09/2025 A destabilized Nepal is a strategic catastrophe for India A destabilized Nepal is a strategic catastrophe for India advtanmoy 09/09/2025 Modi’s address on the occasion of 79th Independence Day advtanmoy 15/08/2025 Modi’s address on the occasion of 79th Independence Day advtanmoy 15/08/2025 Modi’s address on the occasion of 79th Independence Day advtanmoy 15/08/2025 Modi’s address on the occasion of 79th Independence Day Modi’s address on the occasion of 79th Independence Day advtanmoy 15/08/2025